[1802 January]The School in Morris Academy in which I am now engaged, having been vacant during Holidays, I was in the Morning of this New-Year's Day, at Levi Willcock's, where I came last evening from Capt. Cory's and stayed all night, on account of John Cranes Mare which I rode being taken unwell.  I sent the Mare home in the morning by Mulford, stayed there till after dinner and came with Levi down to David Valentine's; and at evening helped eat a roasted Goose.2 S.] came early in the morning from David's to John Crane's intending to go directly to Morris Town, but found my Mare yet so lame, that I went to get M. Casper to come and look at Her, and concluded to stay at John's all Night.3 Sunday] in the morning with the help of Mr. Casper, I gave the Mare Physic, bled and rowel'd her, and afternoon came across the swamp to Mr. Meeker's.4 M.] A very stormy Day---went to the Academy, but there was no School, returned and read in the flowers of modern Travels.5 T.] I read Arundel, and 100 pages of Goldsmith's England--In reading this History the Characters of the ancient Kings of England I feel a desire for Knowledge, which I fear is but a covetousness of Honor and now considering my incomes and expenses, I conclude that the meanness of my circumstances will not allow me to go thro' College, as I have since last summer had thoughts of doing; therefore I mitigate my crossed hopes of going to College, with this belief, that the pursuit of Study will give me Knowledge, let me execute it where and in what manner I may.6 W.] read in the History of England, and in the afternoon studied the grammar lesson for the next Day.7 T.] This Day the school began again after a Vacancy of 11 Days--our Grammar Lesson included the three last pages of the Supines of Verbs--Virgil 50 lines in the first of the Second Book.	Seculato Dido omnes Dies in hoc Anno.8 F.] Lost the Head of the grammar Class---got 50 lines of Virgil at evening read in the Hist of England et osculavi D[illegible]9 S.] went to School, forenoon---afternoon began to study a piece to speak.10 Sunday] went to meeting---Mr. For[illegible] was expeted to preach, but did not come.11 M.] went to school, got head again in the Virgil Class.12 T.] went do---this forenoon was spent by the whole school in writing for the examination--in the afternoon we rehearsed our pieces which we are to speak in public, and this day being the day of the monthly meeting of the priests in this Town, at three o'clock the school formed a procession, the Ladies forward, and the young gentlemen following, in order according to size, we all marched to the Meeting House, Mr. Whelpley heading us while Mr. Hamilton kept up the Rear; where we heard a Sermon delivered by the celebrated Parson Griffin of Newark.  After service I came home and began to read in the first volume of the Abbess.13 W.] went to school, got head in the Grammar Class again, by John Beach's mistaking Circules for Circulus, & maintained my place in Virgil.  Thus far habui meam Cupidinem osculandi Dido.14 T.] went to School---0grammar Lesson, on the Conjunctions--Virgil, from the 195 Line to the 220--kept my places.  Iens ad domus, post Scholium dismittitur, vidi meam pulcherrimam claudentam fenestras; ivi in the room, Illa prima dixit me-Teu-Rogavi illam osculare me-Illa designing fare struam tibi Victutas, si claudam fenestram, fata est, struam tibi victulam, si osculavisses me-15 F.] Examination-I was examined on Latin Grammar and Virgil-at evening spoke on the Stage on the Death of Christ-Fatus, veni domum cum Dido in Lave.16 S.] went to Turkey and Rode Mr. Meeker's young Mare, went at evening to singing school at Turkey, and from it to Methodist Meeting at Mr. Burrows-came from there home about 10 o'clock with Daniel [illegible] and John Crane.17 Sunday] went to Turkey Meeting---after meeting came back to Morris Town-Led my Mare up to Winter at Mr. Meeker's.18 M.] Began a new Quarter in School Latin Gr. Lesson on the Preposition & Interjection-Virgil 2 B. 220 Lines-Began head of both Classes.19 T.] went to School-Began INTRODUCTION.20 W.] went to School.21 T.] do went at evening to Mr. Dickerson's, to Mr. Whelpley & Mr. Wood.22 F.] do.23 S.] do. afternoon helped A. Dickerson to write a letter to Mr. Whelpley in Latin.24 Sunday] went to Morris Meeting---Levi went to Mrs. Dickerson's to [illegible]25 M.] went to School-at evening read the 2d & 3d Book of Virgil26 T.] went do.---at evening wrote a Question for Mr. Whelpley inquiring the cause of the different effect of the Power of Gravity has on Lead and Iron---and read the 4th & 5th Books of Virgil.27 W.] went to school.28 T.] went do.29 F.] went do.  grammar Lessson 4art. of R. 7 in Syntax.30 S.] went do. forenoon-Levi went Turkey and rode the Mare.31 Sunday] went to Morris Meeting.1802 February1 M.] went to school--at noon Paid Mr. Wood $3.79.  Mr. Whelpley 4.03 Dolls. for a quarter's Tuition.2 T.] went to school---Levi went home to Turkey in the afternoon sick with the Measles.3 W.] went do.4 T.] went do.5 F.] went do.  Received a Letter from Henry Ford.6 S.] went to Turkey on foot through the swamp, afternoon went to David Valentine's and mended my Shoes and Levi's, at evening to Singing School, and returned to J. Crane's after L.7 Sunday] came to Saml Muchmore's from Turkey, stayed till 1/2 past 3 then came to Mr. Meekers.8 M.] went to school, L. Grammar Lesson on the Greunds and Supines, Virgil L. from 4 to 5 Hundredth Line, Introduction on [illegible]9 T.] went to School in the forenoon-from School went to Mr. Wood's and stayed till three o'clock-then went to hear Mr. Leland who, on his return from Washington, where he had been to deliver to Mr. Jefferson the mammoth Cheese, preached according to appointment in the Baptist's Meeting-house, in this town.	The words of his text were these, "With men it is impossible, but not with God, for with God all things are possible."  He preached entirely without notes, and in introducing his subject he required his hearers to allow the Bible to be only equal with other Histories for he said with that allowed and no more he could prove all that he wanted to.  Having said thus much, he mentioned the History of France, and told us that if there were many things contained in that history which might be false, the were three principal things which he was about to name, that we would not call in question as to their truth, and that they were these, that there had been a Revolution in France, that Louis had lost his Head, and that Boanaparte was first Consul; and putting the Bible paramount with that History we would have no reason to doubt that Jesus Christ came into the W. that he was Crucified &c. such like capital events spoken in this Book.	In order to shew how much more weight the bible ought to have on our minds than other Book, considering that it regarded our immortal interest, He thus speaks-	If I should tell you that the day before I left Cheshire a Boy has set a snare and caught a sparrow, and again tell you that immediately after my leaving Philadelphia that the city took fire and burned sixty feet deep of the ground likewise, had extended its desolation, was now this side of the S. Plains and would be at M.T. by sunset; without proof one story might as well be believed as the other, but if you believed then how much more would the latter terrify you than the former.	After a multiplicity of similar comparison, together with several pretty funny Stories some of them (in my opinion) to no much effect in His discourses, he came fairly upon the text and finally proved to me incapable of criticism in Eloquence, his meritorious abilities.  And after Sermon sung a Hymn alone, which was probably his own composition, as it was entirely new as [illegible]10 W.]11 T.] 12 F.] Received a Letter from H. Ford.13 S.]14 Sunday] started to go to Turkey, turn'd and went to Morris Meeting.15 M.]16 T.] Levi came back to school.17 W.] went to school as usual.18 T.] went do.19 F.] went do. at night wrote a Letter to Henry Ford, and among the trash it contained was the following Lines.	Each morn e're Phoebus' chariot wheels hath roll'd	Through one eighth part of the great orb, I tend	My Course to Morris' smiling site, to catch	Some new Ideas there; to satiate,	In part, my knowlege thirsty Mind.20 S.] went to Turkey, call'd at Doct. Elmer's, from that I went to John Crane's then to Miller Walker's concerning letting the Place to him, then I returned and took a supper of wheat pan-cakes, with Closs.21 Sunday] went to Chatham, to Israel Day's, from that to Methodist Meeting at 3 o'clock, thinking to return, but the weather looking bad at night, I came from there to Morris,- on the way, soon after I started from Chatham my Mare threw me, being frightened at my handkerchief.	Posterea veni domum, Jacobus cum Dido nupsisse audivi, et factum est in silentione, enim comites nulli eorum, ni Guliellimus invitati fuerint.22 M.] went to school, through the severest North-east snow-storm I ever felt.23 T.] the morning was serene and severe the wind blew piercingly from the north -at velut J. offensus, ultima nocte, in hyeme bachans abiverat, atque omnes eura domestica reliquerat, in Mr. M.; Domi moratus sum lignum secure, et pecus pausii.24 W.] went to school, read an introduction lesson, and 100 Lines in Virgil beginning at the 200th line 5th Book, in the afternoon looking at the 9 digits placed so as to count 15 each way, the follow. words came into my Mind.	(From left hand to right) make the first figure 6	The next set down 1, then 8 you may fix,	Under 6, 1 and 8 subscribe 7, 5, 3,	The remaining three figures, 2, 9, 4 will be.25 T.] went to school.26 F.] went to school read Introduction Virgil Lesson from the 4 hundredth Line.  at night wrote a Letter to D. Meeker at Philadelphia.27 S.] A severe storm of Hail and Rain kept me from school, study'd Mr. Brackenridge's speech on repealing the judiciary Law, afternoon went to J. Wood's where I recd. a Letter from E. Ford; and immediately wrote another to him and put it in the Post office together with one to Mr. Willm. Meeker; and the storm appearing more moderate, I went from the post-Office to Mr. Ford's to borrow Henry's Cicero, but it could not be found, therefore I was disappointed.28 Sunday] The Storm, which commenced Thursday night last, still continues, I am all day at home, and my employment is in studying my Oration to Speak in schoo, or reading the [British?] Constitution in Guthrie's Geography.1802 March1 M.] went to school, borrowed a Cicero of Mr. Whelpley and began to read it with the Class, got the first Section in Duncan's-read introduction as usual-at Night got another lesson in Cicero.  This day I learnt that Cicero was a Lawyer, lived in the time of Augustus, and was executed M. Anthony, being delivered to him by Augustus when they divided the Roman Empire between themselves.2 T.] went do.-at night read the 7th and 8th Books of Virgil.3 W.] went do. forenoon---about 11 o'clock Mr. Littell came to the Acad. and call'd me out; where we talked about renting my property at Turkey, from there he came to Mr. Meeker's.  I came home at noon.  The subject of renting the Farm was again talked of, and it was required of me what I told Mr. Walker when I was last at Turkey; which was this.  I told him the priviledges and that the price was 50£ which proposition he declined, but offered 48£ if 4 Cords of wood could be added to the priviledges, which offer I declined till I could know Mr. Meeker's pleasure, and further I told Mr. Littell that if he was willing to give no more than Walker would, that Walker must have it as he made application first.  Mr. Littell hearing this soon agreed to give the 50£. according articles were immediately drawn, signed and delivered, which business was the best of my expectations this morning---this evening read the 9th & 10th Books of Virgil. [illegible]4 T.] went to School, at night read 11th & 12th Books of Vigil.5 F.] went do. read a L. in Cicero in the first Oration, Introduction Less, verbs signifying profit disprofit &c. govern Dative. at night began to read the first Oration against M. Antony.6 S.] went to school forenoon---afternoon prepared to go to Turkey, and it began to rain, it cleared away and I went about 3 o'clock--went to S. Day's talked of Bargaining with him, my Mare for Gin &c. at sunset or after Jos. Crane came there, I rode with him to John Cranes, met the Doct. by whom I was addressed with, "Well Danl. what under heaven have you and Mr. Meeker been about." from him I was informed of an affront Miller Walker had taken concerning our contemplated Bargain---came ot John's and went at evening to see I. Thompson.7 Sunday] was awaked by Walker, I arose, came into the room and was addressed by Mr. Walker very pleasantly, I returned the compliment as well as possible---he asked me if the storm detain'd me last Saturday when I expected to have come.  I told him yes, he then asked me if I had brought a Lease for the Farm now.  I answered no because Mr. Meeker could not take what he offered.  Then he knowing the confirmation of the Bargain with Mr. Littell, gave pretty purtt words, as I returned the shot with as heavy metal as possible the battle was not long but severe, and he soon went away as highly offended as before.	I started to Morris about 12, arrived about 4 almost frozen with a very severe North wind which I had to face.  I brought with 38.1 Dollars, Rent from J.T. & G.J.8 M.] went to school, Read an Intro. Lesson and Cicero do. at noon went to S. Johnson's, conversed with him concerning a Barrl. of Gin, he offer'd 9/6 [illegible] G. Wm. delivered---this night Mr. Ross is gone after Peggy Bell or some other thing that wants a Clapper, and has taken my saddle without leave, or if it is decent to speak so, has stolen it, d-n him.9 T.] went to school, spoke the first part of Mr. Brackenridge's speech for the abolishing the additional judges of the federal Courts.  This day I was informed that Princeton College was burnt last Friday as is reported.  This evening began to study Cicero's Orat. for M. Law, for a try-recitation with Dickerson.10 W.] went to school forenoon-afternoon made our recitations and went to Church to a certain Man preach whose name I do not recollect at present.  This day brought proof of the account of the fire at Princeton, Henry Mills came up and brought an account of it in full.  This evening read the pamphlet shewing the proceedings of the Morris Town Ghosts.11 T.] went do. went to the Post Office and got no letter.12 F.] went do. went in the morning to Mr. Veal's to get the lampers burnt out of a Horse' Mouth.  This night after school a proposition was made by Mr. Whelpley, for creating a Society among the Students for the purpose of practicing argument and Composition.13 S.] went to school forenoon, after school was out Mr. Whelpley again talked sometime about the Society, after-noon Henry Ford came here toward night I went to Mill in Turkey, got three Buckets of Straw of C. [illegible]---at night composed a constitution of the Morris Academical Society.14 Sunday] staid at home all day, [illegible] Parsens came to see us.  Hac die Mr. I. furens, quod illum ire in Springfield Mr. W. negavisset, totum diem fere lachrymavit(?). ad se acerbis verbis ille iccutus est.15 M.] went to School - after School at night the contemplated members of our Society were detain'd, and discourse was had concerning the Society.  Mr. Veal, Dickerson and myself, each brought forward a constitution.  Signandi meam dicebantur, sed cum egens aliqua arbitrarentur.  Mr. Whelpley took them home, for the sake of forming one from the whole of them and it was resolved that the society should meet on Wednesday night.16 T.] went do. at night went to the Court-house, but the Court had adjourned, came home with Mr. Wood, after having heard several songs sung by Stephen Halsey, at Mr. Freeman's.17 W.] went early in the morning to Mr. Veal's and got my Mare shod, the Morris Academy Society met this night for the first - I was appointed Sec'y pro tempore-18 T.] went to school in the morning - about 1/2 past 9 our class petitioned for dismission to go to Court, upon which Mr. Whelpley dismissed the whole school for all day. at evening I wrote part of a oration for the M.A. Society.19 F.] went do. at evening wrote on my Oration.20 S.] stay'd home all day, finished writing the Oration.21 Sunday] went to meeting on foot with S. Parsona, after meeting larn'd my oration by heart.22 M.] went to school, read Cicero and Introduction lessons as usual.23 T.] went do.---went to mill in the morning--heard that old Mr. Muchmore was dead--at evening read Virgil, concerning bring Daphnis home from the City, my charms, bring Daphnis to me.24 W.] went to school - came home at noon with I. Littell - returned too late, my Class had translated the lesson and was parsing-I , of course being tall, parced the word that they was then trying at, and got up one or two, then Mr. Whelpley gave a word for the last, which went to the head first and all missing it till it came to me I parsed it, and got head.  This evening stayed at Society and delivered my Oration.25 T.] went to school.26 F.] went do. at night wrote on Latin syntax.27 S.] went do. forenoon - afternoon finished my piece on syntax.  This day came Dr. Elmer to see us - Mrs. Elmer having come yesterday.28 Sunday] Dr. Elmer went home in the morning--I went to meeting--after meeting read Peter Pindar concerning The King and Sam White-bread.  H. & C. Russel came to our house towards night.29 M.] went to school--Read Introduction and Cicero Lessons as usual.30 T.] went do.--went in the morning to see Doct. Hampton concerning a bargain contemplated between us, at night was unwell, and did not study.31 W.] went to school---at noon went to Mr. Wood's to dine, et utrum pranderant antecuam ivi, an utrum pranderunt illa die very late, nescis [illegible] redivi ad scholium -- after school the Society met--adopted eras Princeps,- mea prima dicta derant hac, Gentlemen, reddo vobis [illegible] plas gratias pro vestra electione, etiamsi sit indigna; et conabor [illegible] negotis, cum tanto prosptitudinis quanto possim.1802 April1 T.] went to school - heard that Nancy Werts, a school mate, sick with the pleuracy, was thought to be dying---this a rainy warm day.2 F.] went to school.3 S.] went to school forenoon-- afternoon wrote a composition for to carry to our Society next meeting.  This a very pleasant warm day.4 Sunday] went to Bottle Hill meeting and heard Mr. Whelpley preach, went to Willm. Brittin's ---returned to Samuel Muchmore's.5 M.] went to school---began the 2nd Oration in Cicero.6 T.] went do. finished the Introduction, once thro'-- went to speaking at Mr. Steph.7 W.] went do. prepared our Lessons for examination---made an agreement with J. Peach, A and S. Dickerson that if the premium about to be given to our class should fall on either of us we would divide it.8 T.] EXAMINATION--John Peach took the premium in our class, which was 1 Doll. and I received my equal share.  I took the premium for writing copyhand--at night spoke on the stage.9 F.] went in the morning to Doct. Condit's- sold my Mare- came to Turkey in afternoon on foot.10 S.] went in the morning to Mr. Littell's - from thence into the woods with Mr. Casper to select some trees for rails - afternoon to Samuel Cory's after I came back I composed a verse for my Mother's head-stone and at 4 o'clock went to Turkey.11 Sunday] went to Turkey-meeting, heard Mr. Richards preach - saw Mr. and Mrs. Wood at [illegible]12 M.] went into the woods and to Mr. Miller's with Mr. Meeker-- aftern. to D.V.'s to work--heard him preach methodist, and at even.g went to Stephen Day's with P. Elmer and heard J. Oakley preach up his Religion.13 T.] stayed last night at D.V's. made a pr. [illegible] shoes--went to J. Willcock's--came to Turkey, and rode from there up to J's. with him in the Waggon, where he had been to the burying of Peter Rutan.14 W.] Went into the woods with Mr. Littell, then to David Valentine's again and made a pair of shoes for Levi--at even.g went J. W's. then home to J. Crane's.15 T.] worked with Mr. Casper all day at splitting Rails.16 F.] went to D. V's. and made a pair of shoes for myself.17 S.] Carted rails with J. Crane to help me--at 4 o'clock went to Turkey and spent [illegible] for drink, in a company, which is the first money I have spent in that way since the 4th of July last.18 Sunday] went to Turkey-meeting---to S. Day's and stayed till near night, and talked with him concerning trade.19 M.] Made a pair of shoes for Levi, and part of a pair for Betsey--came about Sun-set to S. Day's and from thence went to Smith Miller's to a Methodist-meeting, where Mr. Mills & Totten preached--heard them oppose a piece of writing that was published in Mr. Hallock's last week paper, bid defiance to the author to prove a single assertion that it contained, and heard them praise themselves as the trumpet-sounders that gave alarm to mortals; and I swore I would curse and quit the methodists for good.20 T.] Went to D. Valentine's finished Betsey's Crane's shoes, and came back to J's at noon.21 W.] Worked at setting fence with Mr. Casper, bought a pint of spirit.22 T.] Rode with L. Littell to E. Town point--went to New York.23 F.] Stayed last night at Mrs. Green's--went round the town and at night to the play--saw a Tragedy call'd Venice preserved, and a Farce call All the World's a Stage---after play came to Mrs. Green's.24 S.] Stayed again at Mrs. Green's--about 8 o'clock came out of York by Powles hook, and rode to Morris Town in the Stage---came to Mr. Meeker's and saw a Letter for William, which was not yet [illegible] concerning my going to Philadelphia.25 Sunday] went to Morris meeting---saw C. Drake---went to Turkey.26 M.] Worked with Mr. Cosper forenoon---aftn. went to the Turkey society saw S. Day sick with the meazles.27 T.] Rode part of the way in J. Littell's chair, and came the rest on foot to M. Town--took the part of Rovewell in the Farce call'd the Upholsterer--and went from Mr. M's at 1/2 past 5 to rehearse--evening began to read Goldsmith's Rome.28 W.] Read Hist. Rome till 1/2 past 9 at which I had come to the Triumvirate of Caesar, Pompey, and Cassus.  Then wrote off my part in the play.  Aftn. read R. Hist. and at 1/2 past 5 went again to rehearse.-29 T.] Began to read R. H. again as soon as I got up, and kept at it till I had finished it, which was about 9 o'clock.  This reading first taught me that the Emperor Aurelian was the man that destroyed Palmyra, and imprisoned its Queen Zenobia, which was done u.C. 1024 and AD 273--- And that the names of the three sons of Constantine the Great were 1st Constantine, 3nd Constantine and 3d Constans--- then read An Earnest appeal to men of reason and Religion, by J.Wesley. at eveg. talked with Mr. Wood, concerning religious affairs and found him unbelieving of the Christian Doctrine.30 F.] Read the Rom. History over again--11 o'clock went to the rehearsal of the play---got my hat ironed--borrowed Tristram Shandy and read it in the evening.1802 May1 S.] Read T. Shandy through--wrote a letter to send to T. Pettit and at 4 o'clock went to rehearse.  From thence to Mr. Whelpley's to see him, who had just arrived form his Journey to New England--thence to Mr. I. Canfield's to come home with Mr. Wood, where a circumstance took place which gave me no little satisfaction.	Altho' I had known Mr. Canfield, (by sight) and he me, ever since I first came to Morris Town to live, and altho I had been at his house often, and seen him else where; yet by his being a man of years and property, I had always esteemed it unmannerly in me to speak to him before he had to me, and therefore we never had passed a word with each other at all.  By what I had heard of his character, it was an unvaried custom with him, to say nothing, or but very little to any person except he had business with them; but notwithstanding I had always imputed his reservedness, to pride.  For whenever I came into his presence I would always cast a look at him with a wish of familiarity which would be followed by a stern look from him, filled (as I thought) with the marks of contempt upon my poor personage; which had caused a resolution in my mind, never to speak to him, till he did to me.	It was with this resolution that I stepped into the store this evening to see Mr. Wood, where I found Mr. Canfield and two more gentlemen of the town talking.  I said nothing at all but looked at them with a desire to speak, when I observed the same sullen look from Mr. Canfield as was usual.  After a moments pause I turned about and seated myself upon a large chest by the door, in hopes to see Mr. Wood soon.  Presently I observed him coming out of the sellar.  I stepped out of the door, passed the usual compliment, and asked him if he would go home soon.  He said he should ride home, as Elize. had come up in the chair, and if I would go in and take tea, I might ride with them.  As we went through the store, I passed by Mr. Canfield but without speaking; as formerly.  After I had drank tea and Mr. Wood went into the store, presently I heard somebody coming into the room whom I supposed to be Mr. C. and was a little at a loss whether I should speak to him if he did not to me.  Upon opening the door I perceived it to be him, and concluded it would not do to be as indifferent with respect to good manners, in his private room, as I had been in the store; and therefore I rose to make him a bow: Upon which he broke the silence between us, which I answered together with my hand, and we took a hearty shake upon the spot.	We entered into conversation, he handed round his wine, (after Mr. Wood had come in from the store) and it was nearly 9 o'clock before I came away; which gave me to suppose, that it was his usual custom, or that he had been waiting for me to speak to him which had kept us from speaking to each other so long: and that my former conjectures of his temper of mind were groundless.2 Sunday] Stayed at home and read Park's travels to the interior of France.-wrote a letter to James Dodge.--On reading the notions of the Africans, I found some of them to suppose that Eclipses were the effect of witchcraft-that the world was an extended plain and the edges never yet found-that the sea was a wide river of salt water, beyond which was the country inhabited by Canibals of a gigantic size to whom the slaves were sold--also that (like all other people in general) they think their own country the best of any in the world.3 M.] This day School opened again--went to school, read a Cicero lesson in the Oration for the M. Law.-Introduction lesson beginning of the book.  After school rehears'd the play, and in the even.g wrote for the M.T. Society.4 T.] went to school---at eve.g rehears'd again.5 W.] went do.--after school attended the Society--thence went with C. Russell to Mr. Dickson's in search of a song to sing on stage--came home at 9, and began to read Thompson's seasons.6 T.] in the morning read the seasons--went to school, after school rehearsed and from there came home with H. Ford.7 F.] came back in the morning to school--at night rehears'd the play again.8 S.] went to school forenoon--aftn. wrote a letter to S. Day, and sent it by Levi---at three o'clock went to rehearse,- at night rode to Mr. I Canfield's with Eliza in the chair, found him very sociable and particularly conversant in politics, borrowed of him Sterns [illegible] vol. of T. Shandy.9 Sunday] read the seasons & Tristram, went to meeting- aft. meet. went to Mr. Lewis' store, to Mr. Wood's and came home with him and William-took a walk with them into the woods.-Mrs. Wood got scared by the B. Horse.10 M.] in the morning went in town--got D's coat, came home and got my clothes trimmed, and at night play'd--we had but a thin auditory--went after playing, home with Jimy Lewis.11 T.] went to school--rehearsed part of the play again--H. Ford came with me to dinner.12 W.] Went to school all day--this a very rainy day till after 5 in the aftn.--at evening played again on the stage publicly, Timothy Pettit and J. Potter came from Turkey---After I had came home I thought I was able, and was much inclined to undertake, to transform a part of Mr. Laurance Sterne's Tristram Shandy, into a farce; in which should be the story of Le. Fevre, for the first act, and the Courtship of Uncle Toby with the Widow Wadman for the 2nd. Characters, uncle Toby, Trim, Lieuten.t Le Fevre and his son, Widow Wadman and Bridget, and Mr. and Mrs. Shandy.13 T.] Went to school.14 F.] Went do.-etc., etc.15 S.] Went to school forenoon, came out of school before it was out and went to Turkey with B. Pettit -arrived at Turkey about one o'clock, went to Uncle Cornel's, and home through the woods by the way of the meadow-at night went a fishing with J. Crane.16 Sunday] went to Turkey-stayed at the Doct.'s forenoon-aftn. he and I went to meeting-was hindered from coming to Morris by the rain.17 M.] This a very rainy day-stayed all day at John Crane's and mended Shoes; at night Polly Willcocks came there to work.18 T.] Came to Morris Town in the morning, rode J's. Mare as far as Spring Valley-went to school forenoon, aftern. went to training and at night wrote a composition for the Society, on this question, What is Man?-Had a letter from James Dodge.19 W.] Went to school--after school attended Society.20 T.] This day no school on account of Mr. Whelpley's being sick.  I read in Horace, and bought Jean for panteloons and carried it to the Taylor's.  We recd. a letter from Philadelphia.21 F.] Went to school--offered Mr. Whelpley, to assist him as first assistant, at evening talked with Mr. Meeker and Mr. Wood concerning it.22 S.] Went to school forenoon, got a coat repair'd-talked further with Mr. Whelpley-aftn. read Rom. Hist.-Levi went to Turkey -rainy from 3 o'clock.23 Sunday] Stayed at home and read Rom. Hist. a tolerable rainy day-Mr. Ross went home with Uncle Sam.24 M.] Went to school.  This day Mr. Isaac Beach came to town, to assist Mr. Whelpley in teaching.-Aftn. I intended to have come out of school at 4 o'clock to hear Oliver Walker preach at Mr. Day's, but was hindered by the rain.25 T.] Went to school - got a Cicero lesson, and Introduction, etc.- and aftn. studied Euclid's Elements.--Another assistant to Mr. Whelpley arrived today from Williamstown.-at evening wrote a composition for Society.26 W.] Went to School today Mr. Burbank the new assistant came in school-I attended the society after school.27 T.] Went to School-Bought Robertson's Navigation of Mr. Whelpley, price 8 Doll.-aft. school bought a jacket pattern of Mr. Wood.28 F.] Went do.-at eve.g wrote a letter to James Dodge.29 S.] Went to school forenoon,- from school went to Mr. John Mills' and bought a skin to cover 2 Books--was in at Mr. Campfield's, on my return-he looked in a volume of Robertson's Navigation, which I have with me, which made ask his opinion of the variation of the magnetic needle, which I had heard of today, for the first time, he answered that the attracting power was not exactly at the pole but that it performed revolutions round it; which caused the variation.30 Sunday] Went to church and there was no preaching, returned and wrote a composition for the Society---31 M.] Went to School-- read Cicero and Introduction, and aftern. began to study Geometry in Robertson's Navigation.1802 June1 T.] Went to training--got clear of doing duty, by attending and answering to my name when it was called.2 W.] Went to School--aft. School attended Society---Doct. Hampton set out for Virginia.3 T.] Went to school---Finished the oration for M. Law and Began that for Milo--at eve.g read Sterne's Sermons, 3d Vol. of his works.4 F.] Went to school.5 S.] Went to school forenoon---aftn. went with Mr. Ross to wash sheep, and see the corpse of Mr. Woodruff and Wm. Tuttle taken up and put in a Vault---at eve.g. read Sterne's Sermons.6 Sunday] Went to Morris-meeting--went home with Willm. Dickerson at noon, and after meeting rode Mr. Wood's horse to Saml Muchmore's.7 M.] went to School---aft. School studied Robertson's Navigation.8 T.] went do.				do.		Do.9 W.] went do.		after school attended society.10 T.] went do.	Began the Greek Grammar-- After the school was dismissed, John Cobb, A. & B. Dickerson, J. Beach, E. Robins, Lot Hamilton and myself were detained; to whom Mr. Whelpley addressed himself in a manner, that to me was as wonderful as it was new.  He began with telling the necessity there was of an amendment of the rules of decorum, in the school; and after short touch upon that, he began to speak of our society, which was the tenor of his address.  He told us (in a very angry tone of voice, and with an unpleasant aspect) that we must beware how we personated, in our communications in the society; that there had been some things brought forward which had all the appearance of being pointed at individuals; and that it seemed impossible to him that such things could flow from a heart unprejudiced against those pointed at.  He moreover said that such things were not hidden to men of understanding, that he could see them, let them be advanced in as sly a manner, as we who were so young and inexperienced could use them.	This new mode of address (for it was entirely new to me, as I had never since I first entered the School received an angry word nor even look, from Mr. Whelpley, which I considered as for myself) gave me much uneasiness.  I stood accused of the crime as well as the rest, for he spoke to no one in particular, but while he was speaking turned continually from one to another; and I had as much reason to suppose that I was the person who had given the offense, as that any other one was, because I never had noticed, nor could then recollect anything that had been read in the society that had the least appearance, or glimpse of appearance of this kind.  Therefore, wishing to get satisfaction in the business, after Mr. Whelpley had fairly finished speaking, I rose and desired Mr. Whelpley to hear a word that I would say upon subject.  I told him that what had been said was to me very unexpected, that the intention & temper of mind that he had ascribed to some of us, was far from being mine, that nevertheless I considered myself accused, as much as any one, because what he had mentioned, I never had noticed at all; and that I should think it a kindness to be informed who it was that had given the offence.  To which he replied that he did not ask me what I had noticed?--implying as I suppose that he noticed for himself.	This surly reply confounded me more, and I thought it not best to make further inquiry till his passion in some measure abated; consequently I said no more.  But lot Hamilton then made bold to speak, and said that he fear'd something he had written might have given offence, which Mr. Whelpley soon shewed to be the case.-The fact was this,- The subject that Hamilton wrote upon, was, that knowledge did not increase happiness; in proving which, among other things he mentioned the many disagreable tasks a scholar at school had to experience, and to conclude, he made the supposition - how great would be his torments, if by chance he should get sore eyes by studying; which last stroke was the essential one, for as it happened (though till this time I myself, and I believe the greater part of the society knew nothing of the matter) Mr. Burbank had sore eyes!!!-	Hamilton, upon hearing this, was not a little confused, for I believe when he first spoke, he did not think himself to be the offender.  He endeavored to shew his innocence by saying that he wrote what he did merely to excite laughter, because he himself had weak eyes, and was obliged to wear spectacles (as is the case) but all he could say was to no purpose; Mr. Whelpley's passion could not easily be mitigated.  He persisted in telling how bad a thing it was to deride natural infirmities, that he heard nothing pointed at himself, but could not help having the greatest anxiety for a person who was imposed upon, and particularly when he was a stranger in the place---and that Hamilton could not deceive him, for it was impossible that anything suit so nicely without being directed.	After Mr. Whelpley's flame had raged some time, which burnt a considerable depth in Hamilton's intellects, he told us that this circumstance was the most considerable one, though he had noticed some others in the society; therefore we being all again accused, who but the moment before thought ourselves acquitted of the crime, Mr. Whelpley dismissed us, and we dispersed; and here the affair must end till we get further intelligence.11 F.] Went to school-learned that Mr. Hamilton had satisfied Mr. B. with respect to the affront; and Mr. Whelpley having now got over his passion, times are likely to be as peaceable as formerly.---This evening by a letter from Mr. Williamson we hear that Mr. Wm. P. Meeker is expected in E. Town to-day or to-morrow.12 S.] went to school forenoon---quit the study of Greek, and resolved to pursue the Mathematics with more earnestness---afternoon rode the young mare to Turkey---went a swimming.13 Sunday] went to Turkey meeting--came home at noon, and read the Methodist discipline.  Return'd to Morris Town with Levi, got taken in a shower and storm of hail,-this day Levi Willcock's, Esther, and Rachel were baptized at Chatham.14 M.] Went to school, forenoon got a Cicero lesson-aftn. went up stairs to study Robertson's navigation, and at night spoke a piece.  After school studied a Cicero lesson at home.  I have now quit studying Introduction.15 T.] Went to school--studied Robertson upstairs--Recited Cicero with the Class.16 W.] Went to school &c aft. school attended Society-Mr. Whelpley, in an address to the society on education, made a complete confession (as I think) of his fault in judging us to have ridiculed himself and Mr. Burbank-In speaking of the patience and good will necessary for both Teacher and Pupil in order to hasten his education, he said that when these were wanting in the scholar, when he saw his teacher compel him to comply with strict regulations, he would be apt to think him his enemy; and where they were wanting in a teacher, when he saw the scholar reluctant to comply with orders, or depart from a strict and steady form of behavior, he would instantly draw such a character for him as perhaps was not at all his true one, &c.	This day arrived Mr. Willm. P. Meeker from Phialdelphia.17 T.] went to school-at evening walked to Town with Mr. W.P. Meeker, W. Halsted & Mr. Wood-Talked with Mr. W.P. Meeker concerning going with him to Philadelphia, but found it impossible at present.18 F.] Went to school, studied upstairs, &c.-at evening Mr. W.P. Meeker  proposed for me to go to New Orleans into Mr. S. Meeker's house, which brought on a considerable of conversation on the Subject.19 S.] Went to school foren.--saw Doct. Hampton at Doct. Condit's, returned from his intended voyage to Virginia-went to see him-asked him to pay me for the Note I held against him, or give security on it that I might sell it to some one, but found him unwilling to do either.-Went to see the dancing school.20 Sunday] Went to meeting in the morning-toward evening rode out with Wm. A Beach.21 M.] This morning Mr. W.P. Meeker started again for Philadelphia-I went to school late-Read, in Robertson, to the direction for the use of Gunter's Scale--22 T.] Went to school---&c.23 W.] Went do.--after school attended the Society.24 T.] Went do.--Studied the use of Gunter's Scale in plane Trig.y25 F.] Reviewed on Geometry,- at evening was examined with Isaac Beach on Trigonometry.-This day I first saw the Sector and its use.26 S.] Went do. forenoon, and reviewed in Trig. was examined further on it, and directed to proceed to the next book, soll. Spherics.--Aftn. undertook to be lazy, and went up in town.27 Sunday] Did not go to church,-aftn. walked out with W. & Cyrus Beach, across to Uncle Peter's from thence to Town; from the green accompanied by Wm. Mills and J. Cobb, we went round the new bridge, to the new still, to Sturge's saw-Mill, and out through Elm Street; and where we parted talked of the 4th of July.28 M.] Went to school,- Began Spherics-Read Cicero lesson, and after school another for the next day as is my usual custom.29 T.] Went do.--after school received of Mr. Whelpley a manuscript respecting Deity, concerning which I had written him not long before.30 W.] Went Do.-Began Spheric Geometry--attended Society, after society attended conference de quarto Julii.1802 July1 T.] Went do.-pursued my usual business, viz. recited with Cicero class, and studied Mathematics upstairs.2 F.] Went do.-Began Spheric Trigonometry.3 S.] Went do. forenoon--aftn. help'd get in hay, and at evening went a swimming.4 Sunday] Went to meeting &c--.5 M.] In the former part of the day, studied Cicero lesson, and wrote for the Society,-latter went keep the Anniversary of Independence, at G. O'Haro's.-Laid out 6/. for Victuals and drink, which is the first money I have spent in this needless way, in this Town since last 4 July--came home with Mr. Wood about 8 o'clock.6 T.] Went to school, at noon and after school went to Court.7 W.] Went to Turkey after money-recd. 25 Doll. of Mr. Littell, and 8 [illegible] of J. Crane--return'd and went to Town, in the Chair for Jane.8 T.] Went to School-aft. School went with Mr. Whelpley and others to survey his lot--went to the Post-office and got a letter from Mr. Willm. P. which confirmed the proposal for me to go to ---New Orleans --- finished the Oration for Milo.9 F.] Went to school--&c.10 S.] Went to school forenoon--aft. cradled rye with Mr. Dery--Phebe and Betsey Dennem came to see us--This even'g Mr. Wood told me that Mrs. Meeker suspicater egsit in viam celerem esse factas, per aliquas dies.11 Sunday] went to meeting--rode in the aft. with the girls in the chair, after meeting a company at our house.12 M.] Went to school--Worked in Robertson, in the construction and numerical solution of triangles--at night got a Cicero Lesson.13 T.] Went to school.14 W.] Went do.15 T.] EXAMINATION --went in afternoon and assigned Hampton's note to Mr. Wood--at eve'g. went to speaking.16 F.] Studied Cicero forenoon, and aft. pitched hay.17 S.] Went in the morning to Mr. Wood's and bought stuff for clothes- went to school and began Astronomy--aft. N[illegible]ibat Novum Eborium, et Mrs. Meeker ipsa dixit mihi de Maria celere.  Sent a letter to J. Dodge, & one to Philad.18 Sunday] Went to meeting and in the afternoon studied my Cicero lesson, and Astronomy.19 M.] went to school-aft. school audivi a Guliellimo, Mr. Meeker aperuisse Pompeium et Celeram una sub arbore.920 T.] went to school,-at night went to Turkey on foot.21 W.] Went across the river to Uncle Joseph's and got my hair cut, from there to Morris Town, where I arrived about Ten:-aft. School attended the Society.22 T.] Went to school-- Began Horace.23 F.] Went to School--studied Robertson on the construction of Astro. Tables.24 S.] Went ibid.-studied the projections o the Sphere.25 Sunday] Went to meeting, sent home Henry Ford's Introduction by his brother--between meetings walked round the square.26 M.] Went to school--&c. &c.27 T.] Went do.-Miss Cook and other ladies came up stairs to study with me.28 W.] Went do.-Society was adjourned till tomorrow.29 T.] Went do.-G---Got a box of quicksilver-ointment from Doct. Campfield to cure the Itch, and be-d-m to it---attended Society.30 F.] Went do.-Read Horace lesson.  Ode to Augustus, in praise of all the good and most illustrious men.-Proceeded in Robertson to the 40th Problem of the Sphere, and concluded to begin next upon practical Astronomy.31 S.] Went to school forenoon, spoke a piece-aft. Studied Horace lesson for Monday, and at night went to Town with Betsey in the chair,-went to Mr. Mill's, Mr. Bull's and Mr. Marsh's.1802 August1 Sunday] Went to church forenoon - aftn. staid at home and wrote a composition for the Society.2 M.] Went to school--Horace lesson XIIIth & XIVth odes.  Studied Robertson on practical Astronomy.3 T.] Went do.4 W.] Went do. &c, &c., attended society, whose members were five.5 T.] Went do. our folks went to Turkey, I went to the post office.6 F.] Went do. heard by our people that Mr. Miller was dead and that Betsey paruisset prolem.7 S.] Went do. forenoon, studied Astronomical tables.-afternoon cradled cats, and at night went to Mr. Bull's and got all my clothes.-rode home behind Mr. Wood.8 Sunday] Went to meeting forenoon, afternoon studied Horace lesson for Monday, the 26th, 27th, et 28th Odes--aft. Tea walked to Town with Mr. Wood.9 M.] Rose before sunrise and discovered a bright star between the Pleiades and Heiades, which I think to be Mars.  Went to school.10 T.] Went to school.  Began to study the VI Book of Robertson [illegible] Geography.11 W.] Went to school, came home at eve. and left the society (that is) did not stay to see whether there would be any.12 T.] Rainy morning - went to school and finished Geogra. went to the post-office but got no letter.13 F.] Went to school - Began the II vol. of Robertson, viz. plane sailing - and the 2nd Book of Horace.  Went to pick whortle berries with Mr. Burbank & Dickerson - at Eveg. heard by Mr. Ross who had been below, that Mr. C. Wilbertson is going to N. Orleans in a short time, expects to sail from N.York, and thinks best for me to go with him.14 S.] Set out in the morning with Levi, for Turkey.  Went through Bottle Hill.-Called at S. Muchmore's, and at W. Brittin's where we stayed and dined.  Bought of E. Woodruff a pr. Bootleg calfskin for 7/6.-Arrived at Turkey about 4 o'clock, went to John's and rode down again to D. Valentine's.15 Sunday] Went to Turkey meeting.16 M.] Sent earlier in the morning to Danl Valentine's and borrowed a last.-Returned and made a pr. calfskin shoes for myself.17 T.] Made another pair, and at evening went to Mr. Thomson's and sung with I. Lewis & T. Pettit.-came away with Mr. Pettit-talked with him de visendis Dominabus; sui.  Dido Lewe et Dido Tottone: et nocte Saturni illas visere statuimus.18 W.] Made a pr. shoes for Polly Valentine (who was at work for John-This afternoon Aunt Mary, Betsey Cory, and Deborah Wilcox came to see us.  I paid Aunt Mary 5.30 Doll. for work she had been doing in preparing clothes for me for my journey to Orleans.19 T.] Went in the morning and borrowed a last of Capt. Stiles, to make for myself a pr. boots on -returned and made a pr. shoes for Huldah, and cut out my Boots.-Went at eveg. to Mr. Jones' and Mr. Littells.20 F.] Worked at my Boots and at evening began to make arrangements for a final settlement with John of our Administration accounts. 21 S.] Finished the Boots a little after noon - Levi came down again - afternoon made a settlement of the accounts with John.---Near night went to Turkey, to Esq. Clark's and to see Jona: Simpson who had just arrived from New Orleans, but did not see him - to Dan'l. & D. Valentine's, paid David 2 Doll. due him on settlement - returned to S. Day's where I found Mr. Pettit, qui domum meum equitabat puellas vestras visebam. [who rode to my house to see your girls]	Priusquam certa facta Dido T. mea amatrix de re inter nos memorata, domocilium Didus atterius (ut hand actum sapiens) venit: igitur ibi iter tendebamus.  At ego non tempus magnum ibi morabar, sed voluntate muliercula mea, earum domum illius ibam, in deternimatione, au illam mulierem virtutissesse, an non (si possem) invenisse.	Apud ejus domum, omnibus copiis Orationis, quas haberem, utebar, persuadere illam permittere ut in pube manum ponerem; et cùm incumbere mecum toro poposci, refugit, ac dixit id esse consuetudinem malam, quod illu (exfama) jamdiu experientia probabliter aperuerit.	In mixma parte spoliatus eram mea intentione; enim colere Venerem non sinebar, magisquam mammas tangere.  Igitur, post tentamina repetita, linqubar, circa tempus, cum Aurora prius rubuit.  Atque cùm ea visitatio prima est, quam ad eam usquam feci; ita fulvus vultus, nigra coma, et corpus olens ejus, omnia jubent ultimam esse. [In mixma parte I was robbed of my intention; for I was not allowed to worship Venus, more than to touch her breasts.  Therefore, after repeated attempts, linqubar [= vincebat, he succeeded?], around the time of the dawn's early light.  But this being his first time that he made it; thus yellow face, black hair, and smell of his body, everyone declared it to be the last]22 Sunday] Rose at 9--Went to Turkey meeting, aft. meet. to Mr. Littell's & Mr. Thomsons.23 M.] Started at sunrise for M.Town with Levi,- arrived 1/2 past 8, and learned that Johnny had that morning at break. of day made an abscondment --	Went to school again, studied Robertson on plane sailing--24 T.] Got Horace lesson in morning-Went to school-This day Thomas Mounsey suspended from school for three days by order of the board of Trustees,- Aft. school went to Mr. Bull's for my surtuts, and to Mr. Whelpley's to stargaze.25 W.] Went to school.-Mr. Whelpley MOVED his School upstairs.26 T.] Went school-aft. school went to see where the lightening had struck by Mr. Cherry's.27 F.] Went to school,-Finished the second Book of Horace, and finished the 6th Section of BOOK VII of Robertson.28 S.] Went to school forenoon and began Sec. 7th of Sailing on winds.-afternoon wrote.  At evening went after Mr. Wood.  When I started there appeared to be a shower rising, but I supposed that I could get to town with ease before it came on.  But I had got no farther than Mr. Norris', when the thunder became more severe than I scarce ever before heard.  It was very dark except when the lightening darted its crooked streaks with apparent anger upon the neighboring Mountains.  Flash, of it, succeeded flash attended with continued roaring, which presented to my mind, both by the sense of sight and hearing, the most awful sensations, which were far more harmful than any I ever felt from the same cause.  I arrived, however, at town before much rain fel, and between nine and ten, we came home.29 Sunday] Got up in the morning before day, on account of the severity of another thunder storm.-Went to Meeting forenoon-afternoon wrote composition.30 M.] Went to school, Read the first ode of the 3rd Book of Horace--Aft. school Mr. Burbank came home with me and took tea in company with Mrs. and the Misses Carmichal's-and about 1/2 past 7 he and I accompanied them home and partook of an entertainment of watermelons--returned nona hora.31 T.] Went to school, Read Robertson on sailing in currents.1802 September1 W.] Mr. Meeker offered me the favor of riding to Elizabeth Town with him.-We started about 11 o'clock, dined at Mr. Steele's at Springfield.-Arrived at town, having made several stops, about sunset.  Went in the evening to Mrs. Williamson's but found nobody at home.  At Mr. Halsted's was introduced to Mr. Barry the Teacher in Elizabeth Academy - Stayed all night at Mr. Halsted's.2 T.] Went in the morning, again to Mrs. Williamson's, and learned that Mr. James C. Williamson whom we wanted to see, was gone to New York.-Set out from Mr. Halsted's about 10 and went to Newark,- met Mr. Williamson on his return home - talked with him concerning going to New Orleans - At Newark we looked fro and found a man called Samuel Farlen, with whom Mr. Meeker talked concerning his sister Mary who lives at Mr. Meeker's.  About 1/2 past 12 we set out for home, called in Springfield at several places, saw the Turnpike rode just began, and at Chatham found Sam. Halsted, (whom Mr. Meeker had sent on in the morning with a yoke of oxen he had bought) drunk, and unable to walk.  We put him in the chair and from there home Mr. Meeker and myself by turns went on foot and drove the oxen.  We reached home, safe, about 10 at night.3 F.] Went to school-read the 6th Ode of the 3rd Book of Horace studied Robertson on practical question.4 S.] Went to school forenoon-afternoon studied Horace lesson, the 7th, 8th and 9th Odes,-and wrote composition.5 Sunday] Went to Meeting--after meet. studied Horace.6 M.] Went to school.  Read in Robertson.  On surveying shoals, Harbors &c.7 T.] Went to school-forenoon began Globular sailing-aft. read some in it, and read a play, which is about to be chosen to be performed here.8 W.] Went to school.  This day the Tragedy called Tamerlane was chosen to be performed here.  Afternoon I began to write the part assigned to me, viz. Moneses.9 T.] Went to school - pursued my usual business forenoon - aft. wrote the remainder of my part of the play - went aft. school to the post-office for a letter from Philadelphia, but found none.10 F.] Went to school.  Read 16th & 17th Odes of III Book of Horace.  Read Robertson on the problems solved by Middle Latitude and Mercator-sailing both;- in Mercator-sailing, the progress used in solving question by the Logarithmic tangents, I am unable to understand the reason of; which depends chiefly on the IIII proposition of this Book.  I carried the proposition to Mr. Whelpley but he was unable to give me any light on the subject.       It was not till this evening that I began to reflect much upon a DREAM I had night before last, on account of the singularity of which I have determined it worthy of notice; accordingly I here insert it.       I appear'd to be in a field of stubble, where Rye or Oats had been cut, in company with three others, whose names I do not now recollect, but they were however my acquaintances.  One of them was considerably intoxicated with liquor, and had with him a gun, - he was so drunk that he sat on the ground and was unable to get up.  The rest of us were at a few rods distance from him, close together, when by accident his gun took fire; and the contents which were shot were lodged in all three of us.  Many shot entered the knees and legs of my companions, but happily I received few (as I thought) in comparison with theirs.  What afterwards became of my companions I do not know, but for my own part, I reached a house not far distant, I believe without assistance.  A physician was soon called to view my wound, who gave me much encouragement, saying it was but a trifle, and that he could take the shot from my foot without pain or damage, therefore he went to work.  I experienced no pain while he was at it; but ere he had taken out all the shot I found my foot mangled, and completely severed into many parts, as far up as the small of my leg, which rendered it impossible ever to be cured, the physician was therefore obliged to cut it off.  This gave me much uneasiness of mind, as I should now be a cripple during the remainder of my life, and consequently unfit for any lucrative and active employment.  My grief was much heighten'd in that my wound at first was light, and most certainly might have been cured and it was wholly through the inexperience and inattention of the Physician that my leg was obliged to be cut off.  In the midst of my bemoaning my misfortune, I bethought myself of my contemplated voyage to Orleans, and the prospect I had hitherto had of my success in it.  On thinking of this my grief became almost insupportable, as I was now obliged to relinquish every hope of going there, and (what was still worse) of ever becoming a Merchant; and must content myself to drag out the remainder of my days, without being able to engage in any kind of business that I liked.  After a considerable time spent in the most bitter anguish of mind on account of my extreme misfortune; I at length comforted myself in some measure with these determinations, that now I would pursue study with more eagerness than ever, as it was an employment which required not much bodily exertion, and would use every means in my power to become eminent, and thereby render myself as profitable to myself and the world as possible.	I have been particular in writing this dream, in which I have neither added nor diminished the impressions received in my sleep, to my knowledge, not that I regard dreams in general, but because this is attended with such a conclusion, and is in general so unusual.11 S.] Forenoon went to School-aft. studied my part of the play-went to rehearse-and went with several others in search of peaches, to Mr. Cutler's, but found none.	This day Mary Farley went from Mr. Meeker's, with Sam Halsted, in the sulky.12 Sunday] Began in the morning to read Goldsmith's Hist. of Rome again.  Went to Meeting.  Between meetings went to Mr. Russel's where I learned from Mrs. Walton, an old Lady that lives there, that My Grandfather Mulford's mother's name, before she was married, was Osborn.  Aft. noon went again to Mr. Russel's to sing, went at evening, with Henry P. & S. Johnson, to Mr. Lewis'--Return'd about nine at night.13 M.] Went to school--aft. school rehearsed an act of the play.14 T.] Went to school.  This afternoon Mr. Burbank, the second Teacher in the Academy, came up to our room to take his leave of us, as he was about returning to New England.  In his address he thanked us for our gentle usage toward him, ad in closing exhorted us to persevere in business, and ardently urged the necessity of virtue.  I remember his last words were, 'be virtuous and be happy'.15 W.] Went to school.  The part of Tamerlane, in the Tragedy was given me, Mr. Burbank, whose part it was, having left the school--wrote this part off.  Nothing done in the Society to-night.16 T.] Having heard that Mr. Saml. Meeker of Philadelphia was in Elizabeth Town, Mr. Meeker and myself set out at 8 in the morning to go and see him, on the business of my going to New Orleans.	We could not see him, as he was gone to New York, and not expected out till Saturday; I thought proper to return and came down again, accordingly we returned, came by Turkey and got home about 12 at night.17 F.] Went to school--aft. school rehearsed the first act of the Play.  This day I am 21 years old.  Arrived at the age of manhood (like too many others) I fear, without sufficient judgment and knowledge to fight my way thro this world of vexation, in a proper manner.	There follows a sketch of my circumstances, and future prospects, on this calm day, when I take the helm of my little bark, (which must either be steered with safety thro the vast ocean of life, or must founder in the Charybdis of vice and folly) which account shall stand, either to amuse or perplex me, according as my transactions in future may be.	My dependence, as to property, is merely what my Father gave me, consisting of lands not worth more, at this time, than one thousand dollars, or there about.  As my share of my mother's personal property is nearly, or quite all spent in schooling and board since her death; and I have never yet laid up any money for myself by my own labor.  I am now situated in Morris Town, employed in study, (as my journal also shows) a pleasant employment, and I trust a profitable one.  My wish and expectation is to get into the mercantile business, but, tho I quit school, never to quit studying whenever I can find time to appropriate to it.  I have a strong expectation, from recent intercourse with Mr. W. P. Meeker of Philadelphia, of going to New Orleans into the commercial house of Meeker, Patton, and Williamson; and having a very favorable opinion of their justice, humanity, and benevolence, and being fully determined to seek their interest while in their service, it is but reasonable that I should have hopes, if life and fortune be with me, of meting with such success in life, as will give satisfaction to myself, and not be a reproach to my friends and relations.	But O thou who art the fashioner of prospects and disposer of all events, suffer not, that he who in reality has nothing better to look for than to walk on a level with the meanest, far beneath the prosperity and enjoyments of the wise and great, shall have his ears tickled-(continued in the next volume.)18 S.] Went again to Elizabeth Town, with Mr. Wood, and was again disappointed, Mr. Meeker had not returned from York.  We lodged at Mr. Lyon's.19 Sunday] Came home in the forenoon, in the rain.  Afternoon finished reading Washington's life which I had begun while I was gone yesterday, and studied a Horace Lesson.  Mr. Hedden, Nancy and Eliza Ward case to our house.20 M.] Went to school.  At noon borrowed of Mr. Israel Campfield, 16 No's. of the Encyclopaedia.  Rehearsed 3rd and 4th Acts of the Tragedy.21 T.] Went school--Studied Robertson on the Earth's being flatted at the Poles.  Finished 3rd book of Odes in Horace.  Rehearsed.22 W.] Went to school-at evening rehearsed the whole of the play.  Nothing done in the Society.23 T.] Went to school.24 F.] Went to school-at evening rehearsed again the whole of the play.25 S.] Forenoon went to school-aftn. Read the 7 last Odes of 4th Book of Horace at home.26 Sunday] Went to meeting in the morning-aftn. began to read Algebra in the New Encyclopaedia.27 M.] Went to school- In Robertson pass'd. from the section concerning finding the Latitude at sea, to that of a ship's reckoning.  At night rehearsed all of the Tragedy.28 T.] Went ditto.29 W.] Went do.-at noon went to court, at night rehearsed the Tragedy-Mr. I. Little came home, and stay'd with me all night.	In reading Roberson's Navigation, to-day, I found that I could solve the several cases of Trigonometry, by natural numbers, with a simple statement in proportion, (which I have often heretofore tried to do in vain) by my using the proper measures; which truly are more tedious than to work by Logarithms, but yet I think this method worthy of notice, as it explains the connection between the Logarithmic sines and tangents, and the Logarithms of numbers.	The cause of my observing this was reading the explanation of those figures which are found among the degrees & minutes at the top and bottom of the Traverse Table; which was this, that the departure (in a case of plain sailing) divided by the dif. Lat. would give a number, which would be found in the Traverse table join'd with the course.  I then made a statement of this work, according to the proper process, by saying  As dif. L. : dys :: rad : to t.o., and by calling radius 1 I obtained the same number as I did before, which, by the above mentioned explanation to be the length of the tangent of the course in natural numbers, in equal parts of the radius which I called one.  Then by finding the logarithm of that number, which, as the number was less than 10, had no index, and by adding to it as an Index, because this is the index of the radius of the tables of Logarithmic sines and Tangents, I at once had the Logarithmic tangent of the course.	From which I understood that the Logarithmic sine of any number of Degrees and minutes, is the Logarithm of that natural number which expresses the length of the sine of those degrees and minutes, measured in equal parts of the radius of the tables.  And the same may be said of Tangents and Secants.30 T.] Went to school &c.-Finished the Fourth book of Odes in Horace.  looked earnestly for a letter from W. Meeker, but got none.1802 October1 F.] Went to school-at night the directors came to hear us rehearse.2 S.] Forenoon went to school and finished reading the Journal from England towards Moidaira.3 Sunday] Read America in the Encyclopaedia--went to church afternoon.4 M.] Went to Training and answered to my name without bearing arms-made preparation for the Exhibition.5 T.] Assisted Miss Wetmore & Miss Denman at Mrs. Wetmore's, in preparing clothes for the play.  At night we performed, before an audience of about 300.6 W.] Went to school-got a lesson for examination-and made some reviews on Navigation.  Went at night to the Warren Academy to hear speaking.7 T.] Attended the Examination.  Afternoon prepared for speaking again, and at night we play'd before an audience of 400 or upwards.8 F.] Spent the forenoon in replacing clothes and equipage which I had used in the play.  By a letter which Mr. Wood received from Mr. William Meeker, learn'd that he arrived from Virginia the 30th Sept.  Went, at night, after Mr. Wood went to the post-office and found there a letter to Mr. Meeker from William which contained news concerning New Orleans, which I had long been expecting.9 S.] Went up to Town in the forenoon-aftern. went to Turkey-When I arrived there I found a sort of a quack Doctor, (whom I had heard something of before by Levi) who had an electerizing machine, which was the first I ever saw.  I received one small shock from it but found it disagreeable.10 Sunday] Went to Turkey meeting-after meeting went with Steph. Day to Uncle Cornelius', where I inquir'd and learned something of my Grandfather's descent.11 M.] Wrote in the forenoon-afternoon went to Mr. Littell's, talked with him concerning renting him the place for 3 years--went at night to Stephen Day's, and with him conversed de puellis-de Dido et Lewe12 T.] Wrote a little, and did nothing the rest of the time.13 W.] Ditto-went at evening to Doct. Elmer's saw Mrs. Meeker and Betsey.14 T.] Finished a piece of writing, containing 20 pages octavo, entitled, A short account of the Ancestors of Daniel and Levi Mulford.  After 5 o'clock came to Mr. Meeker's on J. Crane's mare.15 F.] Went in the morning to Town in the Chair-brought home, and went back with the Misses Wetmore and Denman-Aftn. settled with Mr. Meeker all accounts, both the account of property he had of mine as my Guardian, and that of the board &c, &c-fell in debt to him 14£ 7s 4d, extra of the rent which he is this year receiving.--At evening read in the Encyclopaedia.16 S.] Morning.-read the Encyclopaedia-Went to Turkey and saw Doct. Philemon Elmer.  Afternoon went with Mr. Meeker to Mrs. Littell's in the rain, concerning renting him the place.17 Sunday] Went to Turkey meeting and heard Mr. Force preach his farewell sermon,-After meeting read some in Astronomy, and at evening went with R. Day to Uncle Cornelius'-ret. about 9 o'clock.18 M.] Went to Mr. Littell's with J. Crane to measure the roof of the old house, and thereby the o calculate what quantity of shingles are wanted to make a roof.  Went into the woods with him to see what wood was down.  Went back to Littell's and concluded an agreement respected the place, which is as follows, viz. 	He is to have the place, with all the appertenances, except the House in which Mr. Casper lives, for the term of 3 years, at 110 Dollars per Annum-has no wood except such as he can pick up of old wood, &c, &c.	Made the Articles in the afternoon at John Crane's.19 T.] Came in the morning to Mr. Meeker's on foot.  At 11 o'clock to Town, to Mrs. Dickerson's, Mr. Whelpley's and Mr. Campfield's of whom I borrowed 3 more numbers of the Encyclopaedia.  Afternoon read in them, and at night heard Ouinea.20 W.] Forenoon raked Buckwheat for Mr. Meeker, in a storm-aftn. and evening read in the Encyclopaedia on Algebra proceded to quadratic equations.21 T.] Forenon read Algebra, on quadratic equations	RESOLUTION of a Quadratic Equation per modum Hammond		Let x2-6x=1755 be given, to find the value of x.			put d=1758, and b=1/2 the coeffi. of 2nd term, i.e. b=3.		Then the equation stands thus,	b2 to both sides	step 1	x2-6x=d				  "    2	x2-6x+62=d+b2	By evolution		  "    2	x - 6 = [square root of] d+b2	Transposition		  "    3	x=[square root of] d+b2 [end square root] + b		Then		  "    4	x=[square root of] "+/- d + b2" +/- b = [square root of] "1755 + 9" +/- 3 = +/- 42+3 = 45, or -39 the values of x which were sought.	RESOLUTION of the same per modum Encyclopaedium		Let x2-6x=1755 be given, to find the value of x.		Here put 1755=d, and 3(-1/2 coef. 2ndt.)=b, and let			[square root of] "d+b2" - 42 = B.  Then will +/- x = +/- B +/- b = +/- 42 +/- B = 45, -39, the values sought.       Afternoon picked winter apples, and at evening went to the post-office.  Got a letter for Betsey from Mr. Wm. P. Meeker, in which he says that is waiting for an answer from Mr. Williamson, after getting which he shall write me respecting New Orleans.22 F.] Went again to school, and studied and drew the figure in Spherics, in Robertson, which exemplifies the Goniometric properties.	In conversing with Mr. Whelpley today, he told me that he received information of Doctor Michel of New York last week, that 2 new planets have lately been discovered, that they appear to the naked eye [illegible] stars of the sixth magnitude; that they do not follow the Zodiac but that the planes of their orbits are isolined to that of the Ecliptic in an angle of 30º or thereabout, they being near together, and between Mars and Jupiter.	To-day I also found, in the end of Spherics, some directions for finding the natural sine, tan. &c of an arc, from the tables of Logarithmic sines, ang. &c, which exactly corresponds with what I have lately Imagined to be the case; See September 29th.	Aft. school went to Mr. Whelpley's and read the Tragedy Ulysses.23 S.] Went to school forenoon--aftn. went to Turkey in order to make some shoes for [symbol] Crane's people and myself.24 Sunday] Went to Doct. Elmer's and read in Stackhouse' Hist. Bible till noon,- about noon Doct. Philemon came there-Went aftn. to meeting, Mr. Force preached.  At night went to Methodist meeting to Mr. Burrows.  Mr. Bull preached from a text in Romans, viz. Therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he will he hardeneth.  He argued that the Lord has mercy on all, and hardens none only those who first reject him, or askit were harden themselves.  He denied there being any such thing as the Elect (which some professions speak much of) any otherwise than that those who love and worship God, are loved by him and may therefore not improperly be called the chosen of God.  He also denied that God has foreordained whatever comes to pass.  For, said he, 'If that were the case, whenever a father reproved his son for misconduct, e.g. for Gambling, drinking or the like, the son might say father this was all foreordained by God and how could I help it!' therefore instead of reproving his son he would reprove the Almighty [illegible].  In taking up the verse respecting the Potter's power to make one vessel to honor and another to dishonor, he said that the word dishonor was so expressed inasmucha s some vessels were made to less honor than others, and thus were made to dishonor in comparison to those that were made to much greater honor, 'But' says he 'the Potter would not be such a fool as to make a vessel to destroy it immediately, he would not thus waste his day; neither had God destined any of his creatures to destruction, but all may escape hell that please.            Got home about 9 o'clock. 25 M.] Went early in the morning to Mr. Littell's where he and I signed the Lease made between us for the land on which he lives.  Mended some shoes and read the Constitution of New Jersey, this the first time ever I read it.26 T.] Made a pair of Shoes for Levi, and toward night helped John pick apples.27 W.] In the morning rainy.  At 10 o'clock Levi and I started for Morris Town, on foot, where we arrived about 1.  Went to school aftn. and read 3 Odes in Horace.  At eve. read a little in Gibson's surveying which I borrowed of John Beach.28 T.] Before school I read do.  Went to school and read do Carryed home Mr. Campfield's 19 numbers of the Ency.  Went aft. school to Mr. Campfield's and took tea, from there with W. Beach to the Post-office where I got a letter from Mr. Wm. B. Meeker, which stated that I cannot go to Orleans into their House, because they have too much help already.	Si quicquid somniis inest, aperitur quantum meum in nocte octavi Septembri, simile est.29 F.] Determined to study the French Language this winter.  Went to school studied two last odes in Horace, [illegible] wrote &c.  At evening attended a Society at the Printing office, called the Minerva Society.  It was this evening organized for the first time.  I became a member.	Bought of Mr. Wood cloth for Levi's Coat and trowsers.30 S.] Went to school forenoon, and read Horace's secular Ode.  Borrowed a french grammar of Henry B. Russell and [illegible] in it.31 Sunday] Staid at home on account of its being stormy-read Geography of France.1802 November1 M.] Went to school.  Aftn. agreed with Mr. Paris a French Gentleman boarding at Mr. Richard's to receive instruction from him in the French Language.	At evening attended a special meeting of our Society in which among other things that were done, the name of it was altered to the JUNIOR SOCIETY-Stayed all night with Wm. Beach.2 T.] Came home in the morning a little after sunrise.  Went to school forenoon -aftn. went to see Mr. Paris.3 W.] Went to school forenoon-aftn. studied with Mr. Paris.  At night Mr. Wood told me that he and Mr. Campfield had this day been talking of me, and that Mr. Campfield thought something of hiring me in his store if I was agreed to it.  I decided to go upon such terms as he should [illegible].4 T.] Went to school foren. and began Horace's Satires.  This morning received a Bonnycastle's Algebra, which M. Honey brought for me from New York.5 F.] Went to school foren., with Mr. Paris aftn.  At evening attended the JUNIOR SOCIETY.6 S.] Went to school foren.--wrote a letter to send to [illegible] by Levi who went there on Mr. Meeker's mare.7 Sunday] Studied French-Staid home from Meeting on account of a swelled face occasioned by toothache.8 M.] Went to school forenoon and read in Horace's Satires.  Aftn. waited on Mr. Paris.9 T.] Went out of school before noon to go and get [illegible] did not find the doctor.  Aftern. went again [illegible] Campfield's and had my jaw lanced, which eased me of the pain I thought was occasioned by a defect in a tooth.10 W.] Went to school forenoon and read in the 3d Satire.  Aftn. went do.  Went at evening and staid all night at Mr. Wood's store, where I read a small book entitled Female [illegible] defeated.11 T.] Got up in the morning and swept the store before Mr. Wood came-staid there to breakfast, and went from there to school.12 F.] Went to school forenoon-aftn. went to Turkey with Mr. [illegible] in the cahir.13 S.] Made shoes for Mulford and Elias Crane.14 Sunday] Read in the French Grammar--David V., Levi M. and J. Robertson came to John's on their way from Methodist meeting, with whom I passed some conversation on religious matters.  Afternoon [illegible][date unclear] Tended store.  At night wrote a letter to George Wetmore concerning getting me a place in [New?] York.[date unclear] Tended store, and read Murry's Grammer.[date unclear] Tended Store.  At evening made a composition for Junior Society.23 T.] Tended Store--Read Murrey's Grammar.  Today saw Isaac Beach in Town.  At evening received a Letter from Jeremiah Hole.24 F.] Tended Store.  At evening attended Junior Society--performed my duty in the reading class.25 S.] Tended Store &c, &c, A Letter from G. Wetmore.26 Sunday] Went in the morning to Mr. Meeker's, was very unwell, with a cold, and unable to go to Meeting therefore resolved to stay all night.27 M.] Came to Mrs. Wetmore's early in the morning.  was better of my cold-tended store.  At evening attended the Morris Literary Society-was admitted a member.28 T.] Tended Store-at evening learned to play Crib of Mrs. Wet.29 F.] Tended Store, and read in Duncan's Logic which I borrowed of Jarv. Russel.[date unclear] --in the Store-Spent some time in preparing -- for our exercise in Society.[date unclear] [illegible] Goods.  At night attended Jun. Society, performed my duty in [illegible].1802 [December]9 T.] Went to school-bought Murry's Grammar of Isaac [illegible] for 6/    aft. school took a lesson with Mr. Paris.10 F.] Went to school.  Began Murry's Grammar.  Recited in the Chapter concerning evidence-went to see [illegible] and attended Society.11 S.] Went to school forenoon-aftn. went to Mr. Whelpley's in a skating &c.12 Sunday] Went to meeting-aft. meeting read in Murry's grammar.13 M.] Went to school-recited a Logic lesson, and st[illegible]14 T.] Went school [illegible] recited a Logic Lesson, and studied.  Hodie Dido peperit filias.15 W.] Went school-aft. school waited on Monseur Paris.16 T.] Went to school forenoon, recited Logic lesson - at [illegible] received a request from Mrs. Wetmore to call again before I left town.  Went at 2 o'clock to hear Kolluck preach a lecture, after meeting called on Mrs. Wetmore.  She proposed to me to come and attend her store a while, I promised her an answer to-morrow.  At evening read Logic and english Grammar.17 F.] Went to school - Mr. Whelpley dismissed at 1/2 past [illegible] to go to funeral of Mrs. Ford.  I then went to Mrs. Wetmore's agree to go into her store a while, and began immediately.  Traded very little this afternoon on account of the coldness of the weather.  Attended Junior Society at 7 o'clock.18 S.] Tended Store, and Posted accounts.19 Sunday] Came to Mr. Meeker's after [illegible]