1804 January1 Sunday] Staid at home and work'd at transcribing a translation I last week made, of a TREATISE on the ancient and proper pronunciation of the Greek Language.	My object and prospects in life are now something different form what they were at the commencement of the last year.  I then held science in estimation, but my grand object was Mercantile business; I thot. to make that my principle employment thro' life, and make study my amusement.  I pursued my plan, but at length found that Mercantile business, was in reality a business, and would, if I wish'd to make myself successful and respectable in it, require my whole attention.  I also found, that science was not so trifling as to be obtain'd from a few leisure moments, nor of so little value that I was willing to relinquish the pursuit of it - thus had I completely two objects, of nearly equal magnitude.  But two objects are too many for one mind.  Ten times the powers that any one mind possesses would not be unprofitably exercis'd in the pursuit of a single object.  The idea of giving up science was more disagreeable, than my precarious prospect of property, without solence, was pleasing.  I therefore, on mature consideration, have at length determin'd to relinquish business and apply myself again to Science.	And it is at present my determination to make all other objects subservient to this, which, if it but carries me decently thro' life, will give me ample satisfaction.	Wealth and splendor, may remain with those who worship them; I give them up, if they cannot be accompanied by Science.2 M.] Work'd all day at transcribing my translation.3 T.] Finish'd my translation about noon.  Afternoon, and evening read my lesson in the Testament - from the 16th to the 25th verse in 5th Chap. of Matth.4 W.] Studied my Grammar lesson, in Heteroclite Nouns - went 11 o'clock to recite.  Afternoon began a System of bookkeeping in the Italian method.  This, I have undertaken, that, while I keep my own accounts correct, I may also be learning the art in practice.  Made out my inventory, Journalized, and posted it.  Evening read my Testament lesson.5 T.] Rec'd. a letter from John Crane, stating that a person has lately come from Long Island with a claim for the half of 225 Acres of land, which takes in all his father own'd and more, probably some of ours.	Evening attended the Junior Society.  Question of debate, Is it commendable to remain neutral, with respect to the political parties that divide our Country?  Decided in the Negative.  Perform'd my duty in the Reading Class.6 F.] Tended School to make my recitations,- Grammar lesson on adjectives to their comparison.  Tes. do, from 32nd to 40th verse of the V of Matthew.	Aftn. began a Composition for the Literary Society.  Subject, What are the best means of promoting friendship in Society?7 S.] Sent a letter to Ellis Potter.  Forenoon made my recitations at School.  Aftn. wrote some in my Composition for Literary Society.8 Sunday] A very stormy Day - did not go to meeting.  Read the whole of Orthography in Murry's Grammar.  Part of Prosody, and the 2 first books of Young's night thoughts.9 M.] Made my recitation at School - finish'd my Composition.  Evening attended the Society.10 T.] Grammar Lesson on pronouns - Testament do. 8 first verses of the 6th Chap. of Matthew.  Evening read 16 verses more in the same chapter.11 W.] Made my recitations at School.  Aftn. studied Grammar.  Evening began to read LUCIAN.  Read almost all of the 1st Dialogue.12 T.] Tended to the usual business of the School.  Evening went to eh Junior Society - read my Composition on Orthography.13 F.	} Tended to the usual business of the School - Saturday was EXAMINATION.  Saturday evening read the 2nd Dialogue in Lucian.14 S.	}15 Sunday] Went to Meeting.  Before and After Service read Lavater's Physiognomy.  Evening went with Wm. Whelpley to Mr. Esty's.  Spent the Evening with David, in his Study.16 M.] Testament lesson, the 10 last verses in the 6th Chap. of Matth. Gram. do. the Passive voice of Gravitone verbs.  Spent the afternoon in preparing for the debate in Junior Society next Thursday evening.  Evening read the whole of the 7th Chap. of Matthew in Greek.17 T.] Forenoon Studied my Grammar lesson - went and made my recitations.  Aftn. spent also in preparing for the debate.  Evening read the 3rd dialogue in Lucian.18 W.] Made my recitations at School.  Evening attended the Literary Society.19 T.] Made the recitations.  Evening attended the Junior Society - was in the debate, where this question was disuss'd.  'Would the Study of Physiognomy be beneficial.'  I was on the affirmative - the question was decided in the negative.20 F.] Tended to the business of the School.21 S.] Forenoon went to School.  Aftn. went to Turkey in John Halsey's sleigh, with Mr. and Mrs. Whelpley, Wm. Melancton and Sm'l. and Chilion Stiles - call'd at Ab. Rutan's spent 1/- arrived at John Crane's about 6 o'clock.  Soon after we arrived we discover'd a fire on Stony hill - went set out to go to it, found it to be the Old Stone house, in which Ichabod Clark lived - went to it, but the inside of the house, when we got there, was all consumed but the timbers.--we soon return'd.--we took supper, and set out about 1/2 past 7 for Morris-- we came by Chatham, call'd at Captn. William Day's - reach'd home about 10 o'clock.22 Sunday] No preaching in town.  Staid home and read Lock on the human understanding.23 M.] Extremely cold weather, forenoon studied my lessons in the Gram. and Testament.  Afternoon Studied Lock.24 T.] Attended to my lessons.  Paid Mr. Wood 4 Dollars.25 W.] Forenoon studied my lessons.  At noon John Crane, Betsey and Mr. Muchmore came to Mr. Whelpley's.  Went with them to Mr. Meeker's,- returned about sunset- they took tea at Mr. Whelpley's - set out for home about 1/2 past 6.  Evening finish'd reading Lock the second time.26 T.] Grammar lesson, Conjunctions and prepositions, Test. do. the first 12 verses of the 9th Chap. of Matthews.  Afternoon finish'd reading that chapter.  Evening read the 3rd Dialogue in Lucian.27 F.] Tended to the usual business of the school.- Read 4th Dial. in Lucian.28 S.] Forenoon heard the recitations in Mr. Whelpley's room, he being unwell and unable to attend the School.  Aftn. began with Wm. Whelpley, to read a romance call'd The Abbess, which I borr'd. last Wednesday of Mrs. Wood.  We read till near Midnight, finish'd the first two Volumes.29 Sunday] Read the other volume before noon.  Aftn. wend to Mr. Meeker's and carried them home.  I staid there all night.  Saw a piece of Poetry in the Trenton Fedralist, said to have been written by Trumbul of Connecticut.  It was entitled 'A scetch of the times.'  Speaking of Louisiana, he says thus	The Mammouth there at random browses	As large as common meeting-houses,	Snakes grow as large as saw-mill logs	And Rats and Mice as big as dogs, &c.30 M.] Came home after breakfast.  Heard that Sidney Smith, son of Mrs. Judge Smith of N.York, was at Mr. Whelpley's last evening.	Afternoon Read another Dialogue in Lucian.31 T.] Made my usual recitations.  Aftn. and evening read the Dialogue between Mercury and Mare.1804 February1 W.] Made my recitations at school.  Afternoon and evening read the Dialogue between Diogenes and Pollux.  No quorum form'd in Senr. Society.2 T.] Forenoon studied Grammar and Test. Lessn.  Aften. read the Dialogue against Menippes.  Did not go to Jun. Society.3 F.] This morning about 10 O'clock as I was sitting by the fire alone in the study, I perceiv'd that I raised blood.  It was but a little however that appear'd, which in proportion to the spittle with which it was discharg'd, appear'd to be about 1/4.  This discharge of blood did not make its appearance more than 10 or 15 times in the course of the day.  Did no more at study to-day, than get my Grammar lesson.4 S.] The same discharging of blood again made its appearance this morning soon after breakfast,- I have rais'd about the same quantity to-day as yesterday.  This blood is not fluid, but appears black and clotted, as tho' it had been some time at rest in the place it comes from.  I find that the largest quantity comes up at the first discharge, in the morning; after which the proportion of blood with the phlegm decreases and afternoon very little, if any blood appears, tho' phlegm be brot. from the same place the blood came from in the morning.	Did no more at study to-day, than get my Grammar lesson.5 Sunday] This morning before I rose, I found that my throat was in some measure clogged with phlegm, which gave some propensity to cough, and appear'd to obstruct the breath in some measure.  I rose about 20 minutes after I first woke and perceived this clogging in my throat.  I made a fire, and after some little exercise, without coughing I raised a quantity of phlegm, about the size of a common hazle-nut, which was about half clotted blood.  At several times afterwards blood appear'd in what I rais'd tho' in less quantities, and after 10 o'clock in the morning, very little if any appear'd.	After breakfast I went to Doct. Canfield's, Both the Doctrs. were at home.  I told them my case.  They suppos'd that some of the smaller ramifications of the blood-vessels, which lead into the larynx, had got broken by some means, or uncap'd. that during the night while I was still the blood which came thro' these settled, and caused this large and principal discharge in the morning.  That during the day, the quantity of blood which either so small that it was discharg'd unnotic'd or else by exercise, the stomach and whole system was put in its proper tone that those broken blood-vessels were actually shut up.	They told me to call in the morning and they would prepare me some medicine, which they thot. would relieve me.	I went to meeting - after meeting to Mr. Meeker's on foot, return'd about sunset, call'd at Mr. Russel's and spent a part of the evening.  I observed not the least blood in the phlegm I raised during the course of the afternoon.	I went to bed about 8 o'clock.6 M.] This morning soon after waking, I felt the same clogging in my throat which gave me a propensity to cough, that I did yesterday morning.  I rose about sunrise - and after some little exercise this obstruction of the breath in the larynx was such as caus'd a slight cough which threw up a very small quantity of phlegm but no blood.  Afterwards for several times, blood appear'd in what I rais'd and at length I rais'd a quantity of phlegm with about the same proportion of blood, and of about the same bulk, as the greatest which appear'd yesterday.  After this the quantity of blood which appear'd with the phlegm decreas'd till 10 o'clock.	I went to the Doctrs. told them the continuation of my case since yesterday.  They confirm'd their yesterday's theory on the subject - gave me 10 powders to be taken every day, one before breakfast, and one before dinner.	Spent the greater part of the afternoon at Lewis' Store.  Rais'd no blood this afternoon.  Have done nothing at study since Saturday noon.7 T.] Rais'd not so much blood as yesterday.  Took my medicine according to direction.  Aftn. went, on Mr. Meeker's young mare, to see Mr. Garven, at New Vernon.  Staid at Mr. Meeker's all night.8 W.] Rais'd still less blood this morning.  Came to town, after breakfast with Mr. Wood in the chair.  Spent the forenoon at Doct. Canf. in conversation with the old doctr.  Aftn. Mr. Whelpley being unwell I heard the recitations at school.	Evening David Esty, call'd to see us. - he staid all night in consequence of its being very stormy.9 T.] Very little, or no blood, appear'd to-day. - took my medicine - went to school forenoon and there studied my testament lesson.  Aftn. went and recited it. - spent the most of the aftn. at Johnson's.	About sunset as we were sitting round the fire, heard the Bell ring for fire. - found the fire to be at Mr. Crane's 1/2 mile back of town.  I went - found the house almost consum'd.- staid till it had burnt down - ret'd. at 7 o'clock.  Did not go to Society.10 F.] Rais'd a little blood.- made my recitations.11 S.] No blood appear'd.  Went to School forenoon.  Aftn. read Edwards on the will.  To-day it was observ'd by the Family that Willm. and I were bloated in our faces and had been for a day or two.  Wm. complain'd of ill health and to be sure I was not very well.  I felt as tho' I were swell'd in my body, it was with difficulty I could stoop to pick anything up from the ground, and I more particularly notic'd that my head felt unusually heavy, there appear'd to be a dull heavy pain in the back part of it.  Wm. complain'd in the same manner.  Mr. Whelpley ascribed the cause of our complaining to the discontinuance of Tobacco, which we had ceas'd chewing the first day I found myself spitting blood, i.e. on Friday the 3rd inst. before which we had used it very plentifully, which caus'd an almost continual spitting.  But because I thought. it one reason of my raising blood, inasmuch as it had a tendency to debilitate the system, I then resolved to make use of it no more, and accordingly dropt the practice at once as did William.12 Sunday] Found my cause of complaint heighten'd, as did Wm. we were obliged to have recourse to tobacco as a remedy,- found myself reliev'd thereby - but Wm. continued unwell.	To-day I went to meeting - Afternoon read some in Edwards.  Mr. Carmichal's family and Mr. Keyes spent the evening with us.13 M.] Went to school forenoon.  Aftern. taught school for William because he was yet very unwell and was obliged to make application to a Doctr. Canf'd. for relief, who confirm'd his opinion with respect to the cause of his complaint.	Evening wrote a letter to Ellis Potter, to send to-morrow by Mr. Keyes.14 T.] Tended to my usual business in School.  Finsh'd reading Edwards.15 W.] Went to school forenoon.  Test. lesson the last 25 verses of the 13th Chap. of Matthew.  Aftn. read in Russel's Ancient Europe.  Evening went to Mr. Esty's - David was not at home - came to Mr. Wood's and staid till 9 o'clock.16 T.] Mr. S. Whelpley unwell, I heard the recitations in his room.  Evening went to Society.  Aft. Society Miss, Esty and myself went home with Silas Johnson, where we were soon join'd by Cha. Russ. and P. Johnson.- after drinking plentifully of brandy and water, and having provided ourselves with a  dozen or two of cakes we entered upon a bacchanalian revel;- in other words, he who could blackguard most, tho't. himself the best fellow.	I found Mills to be able to blackguard pretty highly.  P. Johnson wish'd to, but his expressions wanted wit - Charles' expressions were less frequent, but were ad rem,- Esty is truly modest,- S. Johnson a compound of modesty and insipidity.  came home 11 o'clock.17 F.] Taught again for Mr. Whelpley.  Evening read Russel's Europe.  Observ'd that Jerusalem was built by the Thing-Pastors, (as they were call'd) after they had left Egypt.18 S.] Rose before Sunrise, and walk'd with Wm. round the Square by John Mills,- we walk'd for our health, it being a fine morning.  Again heard the recitations in Mr. Whelpley's room.  Aftn. read in Ancient Europe.19 Sunday] Went to Meeting.  Aft. meeting went to Mr. Esty's - walk'd with David in the afternoon, staid there till 8 in the evening.  During our conversation it happen'd the Arundelian or Oxford Marbles were mention'd.  Not knowing what they were, I inquired if he knew.  He said that he had understood that the Oxford Marbles which were also call'd the Parian Chronicle were Marbles dug out of the Island of Paros, where they had been deposited in ancient ages, and on which were engraved certain historical accounts.  They were brot. to England by the Earl of Arundel, whence they were call'd the Arundelian Marbles.20 M.] Taught in Mr. Whelpley's room.  Evening read History.21 T.] Taught again for Mr. Whelpley.  Evening read Greek Testament - the 16th Chapter of Matthew.- rec'd. from Mr. S. Ogden an invitation to a ball to-morrow evening at Freeman's.22 W.] Taught school.  Evening read 17th Chap. of Matthew.23 T.] Taught.  Evening read Cesar - the latter part of the 1st book.24 F.] Taught.  Evening coming from school call'd at Johnson's where was Mills and others,- went with him to Doctr. Canf'ds. - call'd at Mrs. Dickerson's where we saw Miss Caty Ford of whom I learn'd that her brother Henry thot. of studying a profession at Yale College. - return'd and Read Virgil, in the 3rd book where the class in school is reading.25 S.] Taught forenoon.  Aftn. read Horace in the 2nd book - evening read Lucian - the dialogue between Menippus, Amphilochus and Trophonius.26 Sunday] Morning read in the 2nd book of Horace.  Went to Meeting.  Aftn. meeting went to Mr. Israel Canf'ds. where I spent the afternoon and part of the evening.- about 8 o'clock went with Wm. Beach to Mrs. Wetmore's where we staid about half an hour.  Mrs. Wetmore was at Mr. Canfield's.	From Mrs. Wetmore's came home.27 M.] Taught in Mr. Whelpley's room.  Evening read the 18th Chap. of Matthew.28 T.] Taught.  Evening read from 300th to 400th line in III of the Eneid of Virgil.29 W.] Do.  Evening read the 19th Chapt. of Matthew.  In this Chapter is the sentence, that 'It is easier for a camel to go thro' the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of God.'  Having heretofore heard it remark'd that this expression is incorrect,- that for Camel ought to be written 'Cable',- I had the curiosity to examine the Greek words which signify these two things, to see if they have any relation to each other.  I find that they differ in one letter, [Kamelos] signifies Camel,- [Kamilos] a large rope used in casting anchor.	Altho' the word [Kamelos], which signifies Camel, is used in the Greek, yet it is not unreasonable to suppose that this is a mis-print, and that [Kamilos] is the proper word;- for the idea of a Cable's going thro' the eye of a needle is much more natural than that a Camel should.  For a Cable has some affinity to a thread; but to use the word Camel in this place makes a figure altogether incoherent in its parts, and unnatural.	Read some in Horace.1804 March1 T.] Taught school for Mr. Whelpley.  Evening read in the III Book of the Eneid of Virgil.  Did not go to Junior Society on account of the weather's being stormy.  Spent a part of the evening at the Store of Mr. Wood, of whom I learn'd that application had been made to Mr. Meeker to hire our place, he told the person it was engaged to Mr. Littell 3 years.	This evening the boys have a ball at Benj'n. Freeman's.2 F.] The deepest fall of Snow that has been this winter.  No School.- forenoon read the Dialogue (in Lucian) between Mercury & Pluto.  Aftn. read prima epistola Horatii, qua est suavior melli.  Evening read Blair, on the Origin and progress of language.3 S.] Taught in the forenoon.  Aftn. Read Lucian, between Pluto and Terpsio.4 Sunday] Very cold weather.- staid at home, read Ovid in the VIIIth Book concerning the Argonautic expedition to Cholobis after the Golden fleece.	Evening read some in Rowe's Tragedy 'The Royal Convert.'5 M.] Taught School - evening read the 20th Chap. in Matthew.6 T.] Taught.  Spent the evening at Mr. Canf'ds. Store, - Learnt of Cyrus Beach who was there that there will be a piece of Poetry published this week, written by John Beach, he subscribes it Amicus.7 W.] Taught.  Went at noon to the Printing-Office,- saw the manuscript signed Amicus, knew it to be the writing of John Beach.  Evening read a part of the 21st Chap. of Matthew.8 T.] Taught.  Evening attended Junior Society.  This evening by a majority, of the Members the Society was ADJOURNED SINE DIE.9 F.] Taught.  Evening prepar'd for the Genius of Liberty, a piece of Poetry, entitled 'The Thaw'.  The intention of this piece was to Satirize an insipid piece that appear'd last week entitled 'The Snow Storm' - I used the same language as near as possible, but revers'd the idea.  About 9 o'clock put it into the letter box at the Office.10 S.] Taught forenoon.  Afternoon read Blair's lectures - evening Lucian's dialogue between Cnemon & Damnippus.11 Sunday] Read a part of one of Terence's Comedies call'd 'The Eunuch' went to church.- sunset went to Mr. Meeker's and staid all night.12 M.] Taught.  Evening read the Test. lesson in the 22 Chap. of Matthew,- also review'd the 1st Dialogue of Lucian.13 T.] Taught.  Philemon Dickerson began to review Lucian, read the 1st Dialgoue.- Evening I read the 2nd.14 W.] Taught.  Evening Studied in Lucian.15 T.] Taught.  Evening read 23 Chap. of Matthew.  Talk'd of going to New England with Wm. Whelpley - concluded not to go, because I have no business to call me there.16 F.] Taught School for Mr. Whelpley.  Evening read Lucian.17 S.] Taught forenoon.  Afternoon went to the Academy to hear the Comedy rehearsed, viz. 'John Bull'.  Evening read part of 'Judicium vocalium' in Lucian.18 Sunday] Went to Meeting.  Spent the afternoon and evening at Mr. Russell's.19 M.] Taught.  Sold Silas Johnson 200 Sheets of paper and paid him all I owed him.  Evening read Lucian.20 T.] Morning finished reading Judicium vocalium.  Taught.  Evening read in the Testament the 24th Chapt. of Matthew.21 W.] Taught.  Evening went to the Court house,- Saw Mills, he propos'd going to Doct. Jones' this evening.  I call'd on him at 7 o'clock at Lewis' Store,- we went to the Doct's. - Spent the evening with the family.- [Kaigukta eos oras diuperas, meta paitrois, E. & I.]22 T.] Taught.  Evening spent at the Court house, and at Isra. Canfield's, playing Checkers.23 F.] Taught.  About the time for dismissing the School at evening the following gentlemen came to the Academy, viz. M. Esty S. Johns. W Deen.- Tuck - & Mons. Craney a Frenchman.  Evening went with Esty and Lewis to Mr. Mills'.  Henry shew'd us some rules he had collected for the Scanning of Horace.  He scann'd the first ode first book, in such a manner as made four dactyles of it.- he read it without regard to the proportionate length of syllables, and to mark the first line so that it might be read as he read it, I should write it thus: Maécenas átavis édite régibus.- he did nothing more than make use of these four accents, the other syllabels flow'd along smoothly, and all of the same length.	This line is thus scann'd:	M?ece | n?s âtâ | v?s | ?ditê | rêgibûs.	  1	    2	    3	 4	5Borrow'd of Mills Francis' Horace, the first I ever saw of the kind.24 S.] Taught in the forenoon.	Having heard Mr. Whelpley mention some old Greek and Latin books which are in possession of Some of the Prudden family Wm. and I, determin'd this afternoon to go and see them, and make a purchase if anything was found worth buying.  We set out soon after dinner.- went as far as Peter Prudden's where we enquired for the widow of Isaac Prudden in whose possession we were inform'd the books are.- followed our direction, and found the house without difficulty.  I went in first.  The first thing I saw was an old woman washing dishes,(three or four young ladies were about the house) I enquired of the old lady if the widow of Isaac Prudden lived there,- She answer'd, No.- I told her our business.  We were order'd to be seated - one of the young ladies said Mr. Prudden was in the back room,- that he perhaps could inform us of the books.  After a few minutes he came out.- we told him our business,- that we wished to get the writings of Pindar (thinking that by searching for this we would have a chance to see his whole collection).  He said his brother had some Greek & Latin books but that he took them all with him to Sussex.  We then concluded our journey was fruitless, and were about coming away, when he recollected, he said, that there was a chest full of old books upstairs,- he did not know whether they were Greek or Latin, or either - but perhaps we might find something among them that would suit us;- if we would walk upstairs we should see them.  We followed him into the Garret which was furnished with various kinds of furniture,- he ascended the collar beams, on which the famous chest (which had no lid) rested.  Our minds were now elate with the idea of finding some thing valuable for its antiquity.  He immediately began to hand out the large folio volumes plentifully, on examining which we found them to be books of Divinity written in Latin about the times of Luther or a little after.	After searching the whole chest we found nothing but books of Divinity in modern Latin, and the most of them folio volumes.  We handed him back the books and at last set him at liberty to descend from his uneasy situation, which was standing on his knees on a small beam (for he could not stand up under the roof).  We made many apologies for the trouble we had put him to - told him the books were not such as we wished to get.  He appear'd to receive our apologies very well - offer'd us any of the books to read (which indeed he might do with safety) and as we were departing gave us a drink of excellent cider.	On our return we call'd at Mr. Meeker's - reach'd home 4 o'clock.  Evening read Lucian.25 Sunday] Did not go to meeting.  Finish'd read Judicium vocalium the second time.- read 25th Chap. of Matthew in Greek.- also three odes in Horace.26 M.] Taught.  Evening look'd over the lessons of the classes.  7 o'clock went to the catechetical lecture.  After service came to Johnson's with Mills and others - Mills banter'd me to go to Doct. Jones' - we set out as if intending to go there.  Stopt about the middle of the Green where we talked an hour or more de puellis, [kaimalista peri] C.D. - the first time I ever conversed with him familiarly on that subject.27 T.] Taught.  Rose in the morning before sunrise - went to Mr. Meeker's - studied a grammar lesson in my walk.  Evening going to Mrs. D. Hart's when Mills and Lewis call'd to spend the evening with us.  Among other things I discours'd with Mills on Latin prosody, and the nature of poetical feet.28 W.] Taught.  Noon, took out of the Library the number of the Encyclopedia containing Poetry.  Evening read in it to discover the nature of Poetical feet, and how they corresponded with the bars of time in Music.  I there found, quote from Sheridan's art of reading, the following:	"Poetic numbers are indeed founded on the very same principles with those of the musical kind, and are govern'd by similar laws.  (See Music).  Proportion and order are the sources of the pleasure which we receive from both; and the beauty of each depends upon a due observation of the laws of measure and movement.  The essential difference between them is, that the matter of the one is articulate, that of the other inarticulate sounds; but syllables in the one correspond to notes in the other: poetic feet to musical bars, and verses to strains; in a word, they have all like properties, and are governed by laws of the same kind."29 T.] Taught.  Evening rec'd. a letter from Mr. Fitch, at Savannah.30 F.] Taught.  Evening read in Horace.  And went to S.D. Russell's where was Miss Dunham and E. Russel.31 S.] Taught, forenoon.  Aftn. attended at the Church where was singing by Mr. Merriman's School.  Bout. of Joh. Wood 6 yds. Linen for 4/8 p.yd.  Evening took out of the Library the volume of the Encyclopedia containing Music.  Read some of that article.1804 April1 Sunday] Morning read Music.- went to church.  Afternoon wrote a letter to Mr. Fitch of Savannah in Evening went with Wm. Whelpley to see Miss Eliza Esty, who has lately returned from Brunswick.2 M.] Taught School.  Evening read my lessons, and went to Mr. Canfield's and play'd Crib.	This morning Mr. Wood & Wm. Ross set out by Stage for Philadelphia, where Wm. is going to live.3 T.] Taught.  Evening studied Horace and Testament.4 W.] Taught.  Evening read the 4 first Odes in the 5th book of Horace.5 T.] Taught.  Evening settled with Mr. Whelpley - made our calculations up to the 9th of the present month.  I had boarded with him 8-1/2 weeks before I began to teach.  I gave him at the rate of 100 Do. p.An. viz. for the 8-1/2 weeks, 16.75 Dolls.  I have taught 7-1/2 weeks at the rate of 160 Ds.p.An. for which I receive 23-8/100 Dolls.	Read the last Chap. of Matthew in Greek.6 F.] Taught.  Evening look'd over the different lessons for Examination.7 S.] Taught forenoon.  Morning and afternoon read in Lucian in Timon of Athens.8 Sunday] Read Timon till noon.  Went to Church aftn. saw Cobb, Jones and Dickerson from Princeton College.  Aftn. went to Mr. Meeker's - Mr. Wood came home from Philadelphia while I was there.  Wm. Beach, Miss S. Wetmore, Nancy & Sally Wood came there.  At night walked home with them,- went to Doct. Canf. with Sopha and Nancy, thence to Mrs. Wetmore's and staid till eight o'clock - then went to see A. Dickerson.9 M.] EXAMINATION.  Old Doct. Camp'd., Mr. Richards, Mr. Garvin, Mr. Whelpley,- Mills, Johnson and several gentlemen from a distance attended.  Afternoon I did nothing but walk about the Green with Mills, Esty & 4 o'clock went to Doct. Jones' with Mills where we took tea.  1/2 past 6 return'd to an exhibition in the Academy.  'The Mock Doctor' was perform'd by the School boys.	After the play went with the company with which I walked on Sunday last, to Mrs. Beach's - went to Doct. Pierson's with Sally & Nancy Wood.- came home 9 o'clock.10 T.] Play'd till 10 o'clock with A. Dickerson, I. and John Beach.- read Timon in Lucian.  H. Ford call'd to see us in the afternoon.  Conversing about Yale College he told me that I might live there comfortably without spending more than $200 p. year, for books, clothes, &c.11 W.] Read 60 lines in Timon.  2 o'clock went with Wm. Whelpley to Isaac Canfield's - call'd at Mr. Esty's as we return'd about 4 o'clock - staid there till 8 in the evening - agreed to go to Doct. Jones' tomorrow evening.12 T.] Read Lucian forenoon.  Aft. dinner went to Mr. Russel's to ask Eliza to go with us to Doct. Jones'.- she was then about setting out with Eliza Darcy to go to Majr. Kinney's .- I went on the mountain and studied G. grammar - the passive and middle voices of contract verbs.	Soon after sunset, started with Wm. to go to Doctr's. -call'd at Mr. Esty's.  David was not at home.  Eliza concluded not to go.  We return'd to Lewis' store where was Mill's. -with him and Lewis we started again about 1/2 past 7 for the Doctr's. - Mills and I walked together before he proposed calling for David and Eliza Esty.  I did not tell him I'd been there.  We call'd - he went in first - I staid at the door - he soon call'd me in.  Eliza agreed to go if David would come when he return'd home.  We reach'd the Doctr's. 8 o'clock,- staid till 1/2 past 9.	As we came away Eliza, Jones came as far as the gate.  Mills et Ego illacum morabamur, - et circiter semihoram allacum confabulabamur.  osculum petiebamus - refugebat illa.  tandem autem ab dextera parte faciei Ego, et leva osculum Mills rapuit, tuno ad allos adipiscendos currimus.  They had stopp'd at Mr. Esty's - we call'd.  Mills, Whelpley and Myself seated ourselves round Eliza - while Lewis talked with David.  We play'd a little play call'd ADMIRATION, which is play'd thus: One of the circle says I admire,- the one sitting next enquires what? the former answers (beginning with the Alphabet) apples, or some other word beginning with A.  In this manner the company go round with A.  Then he who first began now begins with B, in the same manner, and is followed by the whole ring, &c.  We stay'd (very ungenerously) till 1 o'clock.13 F.] Read 75 lines in Lucian's Timon.- studied verbs in mi, on the mountain.  David Esty and A. Dickerson spent the evening with me.- Wm. was in company with the Miss Charmical's again at Mr. Esty's.  After Dickerson went home, which was about 8 o'clock, I conversed with Esty on the plan of educating at Princeton.  I mention'd my dislike to the plan of using manuscript for everything - that tho', moreover, their treatises, which are written very short, could not be so good as might be found.  He said he did not like using manuscript, and as far as he was able to judge their system of Mathematics was a very poor one. - he also dislikes the president's system of Moral Philosophy.14 S.] Read Lucian forenoon - 11 o'clock set out for Turkey - went to Mr. Meeker's, he was gone to Turkey.  Aft. Dinner started from there on foot - read Cicero de Amicitia as I walk'd - Arriv'd at J. Cranes 8 o'clock.15 Sunday] After Breakfast went to Doctr. Elmers to see Mr. Meeker - he told me that a Mr. Jay had applied for our house - that he had agreed to let him have it if he would sign a lease - the price was 12.50 Dollars, half to be paid in 3, and half in 6 months.  Came home after meeting was out, and finished reading Cicero de Amicitia.16 M.] Wrote a lease for Jay to sign - as I was about going to see him, John Colwell call'd and told me he was not at home - wanted to move his family in to-morrow - I told him Jay must sign the lease first - he gave me an agreement in writing that he would himself see that Jay sign'd it within three weeks.	Forenoon I offer'd to several my upper meadow none but Uncle Cornelius inclined to buy it.  The price is 10£ per Acre.  Afternoon went to Uncle J. Ludlow's to see when he can pay the $30 he owes John and me - he promised it some time in May.	Evening Uncle Cornelius call'd and told me that he had a prospect of hiring the money to pay for my meadow - he promis'd to give me an answer whether he would buy it, in 4 weeks.  Talk'd till 12 o'clock with D. Val. on predestination.17 T.] Stormy day.  Morning bot. of Ja. Thompson two prs. half soals for 2/- soal'd two prs. shoes for myself in the forenoon.  Aftn. went into the woods to see what wood Mr. Cosper had cut last fall - evening went to Methodist meeting - heard Mills Preach.18 W.] Morning rec'd of John the last 6 Mos. rent due from Gillaspy 1/2 past 10 set out for Morris.  In spring valley overtook David Potter, we came together to Mr. Meekers.  I there rec'd of Mr. Meeker my half of the last 6 Mos. rent due from Littell. - paid Mr. Meeker 10 Dolls. in full for board last fall and of all former a/cs.- took a Rect.- Came to town 4 o'clock went to Mr. Richard's with Whelpley, S. & P. Johnson, Lewis and Mills to make the parson a present - mine was 1/2 lb. Hyson tea @ 14/ p.lb.  We were kindly rec'd.- took tea there.- Spent the evening in entering up my accounts.19 T.] In the morning I rais'd blood - in the same manner that I did February.  Read a little in Lucian.  Made a draught of our place on a scale of 2 Chains to the inch, from the survey taken by Benjamin Ludlow in 1796 when the place was divided.20 F.] Read 60 lines in Timon.  Spent the evening at Mr. Lewis at a tea-party.21 S.] Read 50 lines.  Heard by Mr. Whelpley who has lately been at New York that the King of Naples has lately found in Herculaneum 11 hundred volumes of Ancient manuscript - that he has employ'd the most skilful men in his kingdom to decypher them - that they have already found considerable of the writings of Epicurus.22 Sunday] Went to Church afternoon, sat in the Gallery and sang - aft. meeting read in Darwin's Temple of Nature.23 M.] Morning read Lucian.  Aft. Breakfast Began to read HOMER.  Read 25 lines.  At evening went to a party at Mr. Esty's.24 T.] Morning read Lucian.  School began again - went to School, recited in Homer.  Aftn. school walk'd about a mile up Jockey Hollow road and Studied G. Grammar lesson on the formation of the tenses, active voice.  Evening wrote two bases - one to the tune of the song, All the world's a Stage - the other The Mason's farewell.25 W.] Stormy Day.  Mr. Whelpley not yet fully recovered of his illnes,- he wished me to hear the recitations.  I heard the morning lessons, then dismiss'd the School for all day.	Read 60 lines in Timon in Lucian.  Evening wrote the Song which I call All the World's a Stage.26 T.] Mr. Whelpley requested me to undertake to teach the school a Quarter if he does not recover his health Sooner.  Morning read Timon in Lucian - Taught School.  Evening read 20 lines in Homer.	This Morning Mr. and Mrs. Keyes who were married last evening, call'd to see us.27 F.] Morning read 25 lines in Homer - Taught - Spent the evening at home in company with Misses Van Hornes and Miss Charmical.  Bout. a pen knife of Peter Jones.28 S.] Morning read Homer.  Taught till noon.  Aftn. did very little of any thing.  Evening Mrs. & Miss Carm'l. came here.  Wm. and I walk'd home with them.29 Sunday] Rose at 8.  Read some in Homer - 1/2 past 9 went on the mountain to Study G. Grammar.  Went to Church, Mr. Thompson preach'd.  Aftr. meeting aftn. went to Mr. Meeker's, to talk with Mr. Wood concerning Levi - ret'd. 8 o'clock.30 M.] Arose at 5.  Read Homer in the morning before School.  Taught.  Studied G. Grammar after school.  Evening studied Homer to the 200th line of the 1st Book.1804 May1 T.] Taught.  Before school studied Homer.  Sold my Lucian to James Canfield for $2.2 W.	} Taught.  Went Wednesday evening to Mr. Esty's to tea with Mr. and Mrs. Whelpley.	Saturday aftn. went with Wm. Whelpley to see the Pottery at Deacon Prudden's - the first I ever saw - read in H. to the 300th l.3 T.	}4 F.	}5 S.	}6 Sunday] Read in the morning to the 400th line of 1st Book in Homer.  Aftn. went to meeting.  Aft. meeting read in Took's Pantheon.7 M.] Taught.  This day the School was examined by the Director's.8 T.] Taught.  Before and after School read Homer.9 W.] Taught.  Borrowed of Wm. Bayard, a new Scholar, a Greek Gram. call'd the Glocester Grammar - read some in it after School.  A.J. & P. Dickerson spent the evening with us - Mr. Whelpley gone to Philadelphia.  Read in Homer to the 510th. line.10 T.] Read Homer in the morning.  Taught.11 F.] Morning Read Homer.  Taught.  Evening finish'd the first book of Homer.12 S.] Morning read the Latin of the whole of the first book of Homer.  Taught forenoon.  Afternoon went to Turkey, on Mr. Wood's horse.  Set out from Mr. Wood's 1/2 past 2 call'd at Mr. Meeker's, at Doct. E's. went to Uncle Cornelius'. - He told me he had concluded not to buy my meadow - he thot. he could not pay for it.  Bargain'd to John Crane, - an to come down again in 3 weeks and make writings.  Read in the Centinel the Death of the King of England.13 Sunday] Set out after breakfast for Morris, came thro' the Swamp, call'd to See Mr. Cosper - he promis'd to come next week and work fro Mr. Meeker to pay a debt due him and me.  Arriv'd at Mr. Meeker's 1 o'clock.- came home to Mr. Whelpley's at 6.  Read Spring and Summer in Bloomfield's Farmers Boy [illegible] since I've been gone.14 M.] Taught.  Evening stormy.  Mills came to see us and on account of the Storm staid all night.  Read none.15 T.] Morning Isaac Beach spent at our house, he is about setting out for the Northern countries.  Evening read some in Homer.16 W.] Taught.  Read to the 100th line in Homer.17 T.] Before school read 50 lines.  Evening went with Johnson to Major Kinney's.  Ret'd. 11 o'clock.18 F.] Read 50 lines before School.  Taught forenoon.  Noon went to Mr. Meeker's and got The Farmer's Boy, a poem by Mr. Bloomfield.	Read in the afternoon, while Mr. Whelpley heard recitations, Autumn and Winter.  Aft. School read Spring and Summer on the mountain.  Return'd 8 o'clock, Maria, quae nobiscum convictrix est, sola in aula sedit.- illacum consedi.- in colloquiis, illam annulum poposci, casculum, pollicens predio.- nimium minoris respondit illa- viginti tunc pollicitus sum,- Accipe, sit jucunde.- Annulum digito detraxi gaudens in pacto, et cite conditionem perficere festinavi.  Illa orans excusari verbo temere dicto, plura uno accipere non voluit.- Osculum primum illi datum a me.19 S.] Ad scholiam iterum me adhuc annulum tenentam, id poscebat Maria.- me did expsisse illi dici.- negavit illa, quod non totum pretium dederam.- reliquum obtuli.- annulum reddentum urgebat illa.- quod dederam tunc nequasivi, eo concesso, annulum reddidi.  Taught forenoon - aftn. went with Wm. to write poetry on the bank of the river above town.  Wrote a piece call'd the STROOL.  Character Amintor and Lucinda - fancied myself Amintor, and a Lady who lives not far from the place where I wrote, Lucinda.  As we were returning some time after sunset, we met Lucinda in reality - I walked with her home.- about 8 we came to Mr. Esty's to get Samantha to go and stay all night with Lucinda who was alone.  Samantha could not go - we ret'd. 1/2 past 9 - moratus sum usque dum occassum Luna circiter, quod circiter secundam horam fuisse, inventum est.20 Sunday] Did not go to Church forenoon, read some in Homer.  Went to Church aftn.  Aft. meeting went with Wm. Whelpley to a piece of woods beyond Doctr. Jones' and Read Fingal, Ossian's Epic poem - was much delighted with it.	I call'd at Mr. Esty's as I return'd.21 M.] Mr. Whelpley heard the recitations forenoon - I read Homer at the Academy upstairs.  Afternoon Taught.  Evening about 8 o'clock went to Mr. Wood's Store - staid a few minutes - as I came out at the door, C.R. & Lucinda were passing - I went with them to S. Russels where was Mrs. Walton.- from there we went home with them thro' a smart shower.  Ret'd. with C. 11 o'clock - lodg'd with him.22 T.] Rose 6 o'clock - went immediately to the Academy and read till breakfast time.  Mr. Whelpley consider'd himself well enough to undertake the School again - accordingly went in to it.	Forenoon Studied 30 lines in Homer, at the Academy up stairs.	Aftn. read Homer and the Grammr.23 W.] To-day Mr. Whelpley setting out on another journey wish'd me to attend to the School.  Taught.  Read some in Homer.24 T.] Taught.  Aft. school came to our house Mrs. Tuttle and Mary, Mrs. Dickerson and C. Drake.- walk'd home with the latter - locucutus sum de illa videnda [illegible] apud Doct. Jones'.25 F.] Read 20 lines in the Morning.  Taught forenoon.  Aftn. Mr. Whelpley came home and attended to the school.  Read some - at night call'd on Mills about sunset - went with him to Doctr. Jones' where C. Drake had gone in the afternoon. - about 8 o'clock came C. Russel and L. Dunham on the same business we came on.  After an hour or two They offered to return - the ladies said they should not till all went - with a little persuading they agreed to stay till we would go.  About 11 o'clock, finding the Gentlemen not inclined to go till we did, and knowing it their place to go if they respected politeness, since we were there some time before them,- we concluded it was but a just resentment to take an abrupt leave of the company.  Mills rose first, and in haste bid the company good-night - I follow'd with as much determination.  The ladies requested us to stay till the others went.  We left them in the midst of their requests.26 S.] Stormy day.  Taught for Mr. Whelpley forenoon because it was stormy.  To-day read 100 lines in the Second Iliad, beginning at the beginning of the enumeration of the troops.27 Sunday] Went to Church - aft. meeting went down the river below Sturges' Saw-Mill, and read Ossian with Wm.  Read some in Homer.28 M.] Read 100 lines in Homer.  Read some in the Grammar.  6 o'clock took a walk on the mountain with Mr. & Mrs. W. Wm. & Mary.  Evening prepar'd to go to Elizth. Town to-morrow with Silas Johnson.29 T.] Set out for E. Town 1/2 past 6.  Arriv'd at Springfield 8 o'clock, fed our horses at Denman's tavern - call'd a few minutes at Matt. Denman's, saw the Ladies and Miss Wade.  10 o'clock went on - Johnson to Town, I to Captn. Cory's.	I talk'd with the Captn. concerning some old business, there is between us, and about procuring a Head-stone for my brother David - he agree'd to see that the stone is made and set up.  I promis'd to see him paid for it as soon as it was done.  On the business of settling David's A/cs. he said he had not yet a full statement of them - he would make one - and when I came down in the fall I might see it and give him something to shew for my intentions to assist in setting them up.  I told him I would like to see them when a statement was made - but could not promise him when I should give him any assistance.  My calculations were at present such as would require all the money I could get, but I always had intended and did still intend to see him indemnified, whenever such a time arrived as that I could spare the money without its affecting my calculations materially, which it would undoubtedly do to satisfy him now, and perhaps would give a different cast to my future manner of life.	I came to Springfield 4 o'clock.  Johnson arrived at 5 - we went to Mr. Denman's - were there introduc'd to Paron Austin.  At 1/2 past 5 he preach'd a sermon.  This is the first time I have seen him since his return from Washington.	We took tea at Mr. Denman's - Charles Russel came there while we were at tea.- walk'd with the Ladies, the Miss D's. and Miss Van Arsdalen - Chas. & Johnson staid till 12 - I concluded to stay all night and go in the morning to Turkey.  After they were gone, I enter'd into conversation with Phebe (the rest having left the room).  I found her affecting to act the prude with the strictest nicety - she would not suffer her skin to be touch'd - save what was always expos'd, but would converse freely on any subject which I had a mind to propose, respecting the behavior of Ladies in private company.  I ask'd a kiss of her, she would grant that they should be taken, ut placet, but absolutely refused to give one herself.  I swore I would not leave her till sun-rise, if she would not give me one.  We set up till day break,- then wearied with my constant solicitations and wishing to retire, she gave me a kiss, while she solemnly protested (tho' I believe it was a damned lie) that she had never in her life kiss'd a Gentleman, except a relation.	She related to me, with an air of sincerity, and in such a manner as that I am inclined to give some credit of it,- the following account of her prospects and wishes. - viz. That she had plac'd her affections on one whom she esteem'd worthy and more than worthy of them. scil. Mr. O-----.  She did not know his mind with respect to marriage, but expected to soon,- and that if this ever took place, it would be within two Years.  If this Gentleman should not soon give his promises, she was already engaged, and should be married in 6 months, or less, to another who was much less in her esteem, but who possess'd much more property;- and this match would be merely to please her parents. - the latter gentleman's name is Mr. D.1130 W.] Rose 7 o'clock to breakfast.  8 set out for Turkey.  at Turkey wrote a letter to Jeremiah Hole.  John Crane engaged positively to buy my meadow. - came to Morris at six o'clock.31 T.] Read 125 lines which finished the 2 book of Homer.  Spent some time in looking at the Cavilry who train on the green this day.  Evening went to Mr. Esty's where was a party.1804 June1 F.] Read 100 lines in Homer.  Recited a lesson in the aftn.  Went to Mr. Meeker's to tea - read osme in the Grammar.2 S.] Read 100 lines in Homer.  Evening wrote part of a letter.3 Sunday] Went to Meeting forenoon - heard Parson Woodhull of Long Island.  Read my 100 lines.  Evening finished the letter to Ellis Potter.4 M.] Read 100 lines.  Borrow'd Mr. Keyes' HEBREW GRAMMAR and began the study of that language.5 T.] Regimental training in Town.  Read my 100 lines and got them done by noon - aftn. train'd.  Read a little in the H. Gram.6 W.] Taught school for Mr. Whelpley forenoon.  Read 100 lines.  Evening went to Mr. Mills', where were a number of Ladymen & Gentlemen.7 T.] Read 100 liens.  Aftn. studied Hebrew and went to Mr. Meeker's.8 F.] Read 100 lines.  Afternoon studied the Hebrew Grammar.  Evening went to Mr. Bull's to get my Coat - not done - took tea at Mr. Esty's.  Aft. tea walk'd with David to Whatnung plains - came at Nine.9 S.] Read 100 lines.  Aftn. committed to memory a lesson in Hebrew to recite on Monday.  Evening Went to Mr. Bull's and got a coat he has made for me.10 Sunday] Read some in Homer before meeting.  Went to meeting.  Aft. meet'g. finished my 100 lines, which completed the IV BOOK of the Iliad.  Towards night took a walk with Chas. Pierce and John & Solm. Beach.  Evening read some of the Latin of Hesiod.11 M.] Read 100 lines, the beginning of the Vth Book.  Aftn. Studied a Heb. Grammar lesson.  Paid Mr. Wood in full £ 4..15..412 T.] Read 100 lines.  Recited in Hebrew.13 W.] Read 100 lines.  Recited in Hebrew - the Declensions of Nouns.  Aftn. Distributed the Parts of TAMERLANE - the Tragedy.14 T.] Read 100 lines.  Studied Prefixes and Pronouns in Hebrew - went to Mr. Meeker's with C. Russel.15 F.] Read 100 lines.  Afternoon took a walk and Studied Hebrew.  D. and Eliza Esty spent the evening with us.16 S.] Read 100 lines, in the forenoon.  Afternoon attended the Rehearsal of the Tragedy Tamerlane, which we intend playing the 4th of July next.  Evening went in the River with Ogden, Mills, & P. Johnson.17 Sunday] Read 100 lines - went to Church afternoon.  Evening walk'd with D. Esty to Whatnung plains.  Ret'd. 9 o'clock.18 M.] Read 100 lines.  After school Rehearsed the Tragedy.19 T.] Read 100 lines which finished the Vth Book.  1/2 past 4 in the aftn. went with O. Peirson and D. Esty, to Mr. Pierson's found plenty of Strawberries.  About 8, as we were thinking of starting home, it began to rain.  we agreed to stay all night.20 W.] Rose 6 o'clock - it was yet stormy.  We stay'd all day waiting a Slack, but found none long enough for us to set out, with any prospect of getting home dry.  During the course of the day I read Davidson's translation of the 6th Eneid,-Duncan's translation of the 1st Oration of Cicero against Catiline, and some other little pieces.  after tea we resolved on coming home - set out about 8 o'clock, reach'd home at 9, considerably wet.21 T.] Began the VI BOOK of Homer.  This also a very stormy day.  Read 140 lines.  Evening wrote out the ideas of what I had been over in the day, from memory - wrote them in poetry and made it 114 lines.22 F.] Read 125 lines.  aft. School rehearsed the Tragedy.23 S.] Read 150 lines.  Aftn. Rehearsed.  Spent the evening walking with D. Esty.24 Sunday] Went to Church forenoon.  To-day finish'd the VIth Book of Homer.  Afternoon went to Mr. Meeker's with Levi - return'd the 1st Volume of Pope's Homer.25 M.] Forenoon began Xenophen - read the preface and recited it.  Aftn. Read Pope's Homer.  In reading the essay on the Life, writings &c of Homer, which Pope has prefix'd to his translation of the Iliad, I find the following ideas.	That Homer's manner of life, his birthplace, or fortune are entirely unknown at this late date.  Almost all the Ancient world claim him - but no particular part can bring satisfactory evidence of their right to him.  However, it seems from the weight of evidence, that he lived in some of the Islands of the Archipelago, and the learned are rather of the opinion he lived in Chios, an island near the cost of Menia in Lesser Asia.  His writings show him to have been well acquainted, with the religion and learning of his times, and more particularly is he celebrated as a Geographer.  Pope supposes he must have been a great traveller or he would never (according to the method of receiving information in those times) have been a man of such extended knowledge.- he thinks it probable, that his plan of the Odyssey was suggested to him from real sufferings and shipwreck of his own, during his travels.- furthermore, he supposes he was a person of considerable fortune and respectability in his time (not that indigent schoolmaster, and afterwards blind beggar that some would make him) else he never could have travelled.  For travelling was then very expencive, on account of the imperfect state of navigation;- voyages were long and uncertain.  The blindness which many attribute to him, Pope thinks he was never afflicted with, unless in a late period of his life - for how he paint landscapes, & describe battles so perfectly agreeing with nature, and impart with the greatest strength and beauty, ideas which he could never have come at but by the sight, if he did not possess this faculty till after his imagination, judgment and learning had arrived at their highest stage?	Homer did not arrange his works himself in the manner in which they are now found.- he left them in several pieces,- one call'd the wrath of Achilles,- another the battle at the ships,- another the wanderings of Ulysses &c.  Lycurgus of Sparta, was the first that gave the circulation in Greek.  While collecting his laws, he had occasion to go to Smyrna.  Then he found these poems.  His refined taste perceived their beauties, he purchased a copy, brot. them home, and gave them circulation.  They were yet in pieces as Homer left them.  So they remain'd, till in the time of Solon, Pisistratus tyrant of Athens, collected them in the manner we now have them.26 T.] Forenoon read 60 lines in the beginning of the first Book of Xenophon.  Aftn. studied Homer, in translation,- viz. notes, observations, &c.27 W.] Forenoon studied Xenophon - 75 lines - Aftn. began to Copy a Map of Greece, (as described by Homer) from Pope's Homer.  Rehears'd the 5th Act of the Tragedy.28 T.] Rose 5 o'clock - read 25 lines before breakfast - 45 more and recited them.  Aftn. work'd on my Maps.  Spent the evening at little that was profitable.29 F.] Read 60 lines in Xen. forenoon. - aftn. finish'd my maps and rehears'd the Tragedy.30 S.] Read 60 lines.  Aftn. Rehearsed the whole of the Tragedy.  Returned the 1st and borrowed the 2nd Volume of Pope's Homer.1804 July1 Sunday] Read Pope's Homer.  Went to Church afternoon.  Aft. meeting read Homer again.  Evening Maria cum de re agenda loquebam.2 M.] Forenoon read Xenophon - 62 lines - Afternoon read Homer and Evening rehears'd till 9 o'clock.3 T.] Forenoon read 55 lines.  Afternoon worked at a Map of Troy and the Grecian encampment, which is in the 2nd volume of Pope's Homer.  Spent the evening in looking for clothes for the Exhibition.4 W.] Spent the day at Mr. Sylvester Russell's,- assist'd Mrs. Russel and Eliza, in preparing my dress for the Exhibition.  We began the play at 8 o'clock and ended at 12, before a very respectable audience.5 T.] Work'd at my Map, and committed to memory a historical prologue to our play to speak to-morrow evening.6 F.] Read 30 lines in Xenophon, and prepared for the play.  Evening play'd - the Audience quite thin.7 S.] Distributed my clothes which I had in the Play.- went to Mr. Bull's and got my coat which he had mended - pay'd his bill amt'g. to £1-3-6- paid it by a Credit at Canf'd. & Wood's Store.  Ret. 2nd Volume of Pope's Homer and bor'd. the 3rd.  Borr'd. the Tragedy of Cato, and read a part of it.  It is in contemplation to play this next fall.  Spent an hour at Mr. Esty's in the evening.8 Sunday] A very warm day.- forenoon went down the river with Wm. Whelpley & D. Esty where we read a part of the Tragedy of Cato.  Afternoon went to Meeting.  Aft. Meeting I read 2 Books, viz. 9th & 10th in Homer.  Even'g. went to Mr. Meeker's with W.P. Russell.  Mr. Meeker told me he had enter'd as lawful Guardian for Levi, last week.9 M.] Rose 1/2 past 4.  Forenoon read Xenophon. - aftn. Pope's Homer.10 T.] Forenoon read Xenophon.  Aftn. finish'd the 3rd Volume of Homer. - bor'd. 4th.11 W.] Read 50 lines in Xen.  Spent aft. in Hom. - evening with D. & E. Esty to Mr. Russel's - ret'd. to Mr. Esty's.- staid till horam primam - proton illam pote usa erat tonto.  M[illegible] solus cum illa duo jenro.12 T.] Read 60 lines. - aftn. read Homer.  Evening C. Russel, Mills, & D. Esty call'd on Wm. Whelpley & myself, to consult on taking up a play for next fall - we agreed on Cato.  Mills takes Cato; Russel, Syphx, Whelpley, Pemprenum; Esty, Juba & I Portius.13 F.] Read 75 lines in Xenophon.  Aftn. finish'd the 10th Book of Pope's Homer.  Wrote some of my part in the play.  Evening (according to previous agreement) C. & F. Russel, D. & E. Esty and myself, undertook to go to Mr. Meeker's without the knowledge of any others.  It was found out.  John was at Mr. Russel's several times evening - Charles seeing it impossible to go, went away - I went to Mr. Russel's about sunset there found half a dozen French Devils - Eliza Esty came about .-- we gave up going to Mr. Meeker's, tho' Johnson and others (having guess'd our intent) urged it.  We went to Doctr. Jones'.14 S.] Taught for Mr. Whelpley forenoon.- Aftn. Read 17th and 18th of the Iliad - the latter of which contains a description of Achilles' Shield.  Evening we again undertook to go to Mr. Meeker's.  I went to Mr. Esty's about 6 o'clock - told Eliza my errand.- after tea in order to deceive Mourhouse David & myself set out for a walk (previously acquainting Eliza with our plan) Eliza went up stairs as tho' not about to go anywhere.  By the time D. & I had got to Dixon's, Mour'e. was following us up the hill.  We turn'd toward the new bridge, and met Eliza, who had stole out at the back door to shun Mourhouse.  We reach'd Mr. Russell's without being chas'd by any of the Bull-dog breed of beaux, which chase every Lady that walks the green in the evening.  But e'en we could set out from there, in comes Mills & Dunham, who by some means or other had found our track.  We curs'd our stars, and determin'd not to go farther:- in about 10 minutes, Mrs. Whelpley and Mary Leddle who had seen us cross the green, came also to Mr. Sussell's.  We staid there till 10 o'clock.15 Sunday] Studied Greek Grammar Lesson in the morning.- went to Church - aft. meeting read 1 book in Pope at the Academy, and walk'd alone to Mr. Meeker's.  Evening began to sketch out the contents of Homer.16 M.] EXAMINATION.  I was examin'd on the first book of Xenophon.- read 100 lines the same author.  Aftn. read 1 book in Homer,- and at night continued my sketch of contents, to the 11th book.17 T.] Read 15 lines in Xenophon before breakfast.  70 more before dinner.  Aftn. read the 21st book of Pope's Homer which finished the 5th Volume.  Eveing continued my sketch of contents to the 10th book.18 W.] Went to Turkey with Silas Johnson,- rode Mr. Whelpley's horse.  Arriv'd at Turkey 10 o'clock in the morning.  John had not collected any money for me in pay for the meadow.  Call'd on Jay for rent - got none.  Agreed to come down between the middle and last of September.  Met Johnson at 3 o'clock at Carman's in Turkey.- came to Bottle hill - call'd at Brittin's, & at Reynold's, the tavern.- came by D. Pierson's - arrived in Town 6 o'clock.  Spent the evening on the Subject of the Tragedy.19 T.] Before breakfast settled with Mr. Whelpley up to the 15th inst. the acct. of board was 17 Dollars.  Assistance in the school 13.  Forenoon finished the first book of Xenophon.  Aftn. read in the last volume of Homer.  Evening we call'd meeting on the subject of the play, all got mad, then drunk, then pleased again - we caper'd about the green from 11 o'clock till 1/2 past 12, without any hats or coats.- parted good friends.20 F.] Finish'd Pope's Homer.- went, at 5 in the afternoon, with Mills, to G. Ford's to see Esty.  Evening finish'd my sketch of the contents of Homer.21 S.] Read the first oration of Cicero against Cataline,---evening C. Russel was here, discoursing about a Comedy.22 Sunday] Read 27th & 28th dialogues in Lucian.- went to meeting afternoon.  Aft. meeting read a little in Juvenal.  Evening return'd the last volume of the Iliad, and bor'd. the 1st of the Odyssey.23 M.] Morning read some in the 1st Book of Odyssey.  This day, agreeable to an agreement made last week, began to TEACH Mr. Whelpley's school.  I am to continue in it a quarter for 50 Dollars beside my board.	Aft. school went to Mr. Meeker's and studied the part of Syphax in Cato.  Evening finish'd reading, and made an Epitome of the first book of Pope's Odyssey.24 T.] Morning Read the 2nd.  Before school Isaac Beedle call'd to see me, a cousin of mine whom I had not seen in 4 or 5 years.	Taught school.  Evening Epitomised the 2nd Odyssey.  Went to Walker's and call'd at Mr. Esty's.25 W.] Taught.  Studied the Lucian and Cicero lessons.  Read and epitomised the 3rd Odyssey.26 T.] Taught.  Read and epitomised the 4th of the Odyssey.  Studied Lucian lesson &c.27 F.] Taught.  Morning read Lucian lesson.  Spent the evening to very little benefit.28 S.] Taught forenoon.  Saw I.T. Wood at noon who has lately come from N.York, and who told me that Col. Burr left N.Y. last Saturday night, with an intention to go to the South [illegible] that a Jury was now sitting in order to find proof against him of the murder of Gen. Hamilton, whom he lately kill'd in a Duel.	Afternoon read part of the 7th Book of Cesar's commentaries - went to Mr. Meeker's and afterwards to Maj. Kenney's with D. Esty. - ret'd. 9 o'clock and read part of the 5th Odys.29 Sunday] Finish'd reading, and epitomised the 5th.  Read the second oration against Cataline, went to church, and aftr. meeting read Agamemnon & Ajax in Lucian.  Evening read and epitomised the 7th Odyssey.30 M.] Taught.  Evening read the 8th Od.31 T.] Taught.  Morning read Minos and Sostratos in Lucian.  Even. epitomised the 8th Odys.1804 August1 W.] Taught.  Read and epitomised the 9th Odyssey.2 T.] Taught.  Morning review'd the beginning of Xenophon.  To-day the class in School began to read that author.- evening read some in the 10th Odyssey.3 F.] Taught.  Morning read half of the 3rd Oration against Cataline.  Evening finished 11th Odys.4 S.] Taught forenoon.  Afternoon read the remainder of Cicero's 3rd against Cataline.  Spent the evening at Mr. Esty's - heard Eliza tell of her going to Paterson with Mourhouse.5 Sunday] Wrote a piece of poetry which I call the Morris beaux, in Paterson, found on an occurrence which took place last week.  A true relation as stated to me.6 M.] Taught.  Read 12th Odyssey.7 T.] Taught.  Read some in Longinus.  Evening unwell.8 W.] Taught.  Morning read in Longinus.  Evening read and epitomised 15th Odyssey.9 T.] Taught.  Read some in Xenophon.  Epitomised 14th.10 F.] Taught.  finish'd 15th Odys.  Spent the evening with C. Russel, and at Carmichal's with E. Jones & E Esty.  visitandum puellas non est mihi avolius.11 S.] Taught forenoon.  Afternoon set out with Mr. Whelpley to go to the Springs at Schoolar's Mountain, - arrived at Dutch-valley 8 o'clock.  Staid there all night.12 Sunday] Rose 1/2 past 4.  Went to the spring and took a shower bath.  Ret'd to Dutch Valley 9 o'clock,- reach'd home 5 in the afternoon.13 M.] Taught.  Out of school read some in Xenophon, and 16th Odyssey.14 T.] Taught.  Read and epitomised 17th Odys.15 W.] Taught.  Evening C. Russel spent at our house.- heard from him, and he was inform'd by Mrs. Muir, that Mr. Fitch had dropt. the study of law, commenced grocer, fail'd and run away.  I utterly disblieve it.  Finished 18th Odys.16 T.] Taught.  Epitomised 19th Odys.  Evening a meeting concerning the plays.17 F.] Taught.  Morning read some in Xenophon.  Evening went to Mr. Esty's with C. Russel.18 S.] Taught forenoon.  Afternoon finished to the 23rd of the Odyssey - even'g. went to Mr. Meeker's and saw Wm. P. Meeker of Philadelphia.19 Sunday] Went to Church forenoon - aftern. wrote the part of Caleb Quotem in the face called The Wages of Windsor. - finished the 23rd Odyssey.20 M.] Taught in Wm. Whelpley's room - he was sick. - finished the Odyssey.21 T.] Forenoon Read two Chapters in 1st Peter, in Greek. - afternoon taught.- evening met for a rehearsal of the Tragedy Cato.22 W.] Taught all day.  Read Cicero's 4th Oration against Cataline.23 T.] Taught.- finished reading 1st Peter.24 F.] Forenoon read 2nd Peter.  Afternoon Taught.25 S.] Forenoon read 2 Chapters in Hebrews.  Afternoon went to Ogden with Wm. and Borrowed Hudibras.  - 4 o'clock rehearsed a part of the Tragedy.  Unwell.26 Sunday] Read the first part of Hudibrass.  3rd Chapt. of Hebrews - afternoon went to Mr. Meeker's.27 M.] Read 3 Chapters in Hebrews.- heard some recitations in the afternoon.  Evening read second part of Hudibras.28 T.] Read 3 Chapters in Hebrews.  Evening read 'The Fair Penetant.'29 W.] Finished Hebrews.  Having some days ago sent my Poem to the Editors of the Centinel of Freedom, the following appear'd to-day in that paper.  We must have a personal interview with the writer of the Poem signed, Pindaridis, before we can give it publicity.	At night the players met, agreed to drop Cato and take up 'The Fair Penetant.'30 T.] Began to read The Acts.  Read the 3 first chapters.  Afternoon went to Jeduthan Day's to hear Parson Austin preach. - call'd as we came back and spent the evening at Keyes' in a considerable company.31 F.] Read 3 Chapters in Acts.  David Esty at our house all the evening - conversation on Characters about town, first - then turned on science particularly Biography.1804 September1 S.] Read 4 Chapters.  Afternoon went to Mr. Meeker's - talking with Wm. Meeker he told me that Lancaster was the largest inland town in America - that the main street was paved more than a mile, and was a place of considerable business.  Evening rehearsed the first act of our Tragedy.2 Sunday] Went to Meeting.- read 3 more chapters in the Acts - whole 14 - Afternoon went with C. Russell to Maj. Kinney's - shewed him the poem I sent to Newark - he said he could get it printed.3 M.] Began to read Romans.  Read 4 Chapters.4 T.] Read 7 Chapters in Romans.  Evening read some Hor.  De arte poetica, and spent an hour or two at Mr. Esty's.5 W.] Read 7 Chapters more - 5 in Romans, which finished that epistle,- and 2 in First Corinthians.  Evening rehearsed 2 first acts of the Tragedy.6 T.] Read 8 Chapters in Corinthians.  Rehears'd.7 F.] Read 6 Chapters which completed Corinth's. - went to Mr. Meeker's.8 S.] Unwell - read some in Revelations - read the epistle of Jude - went with Mr. S. Whelpley to Mr. Meeker's - concluded to go to Turkey to-morrow with Mr. Wood & Wm. Meeker.9 Sunday] Set out for Turkey 1/2 past 8 - call'd for Messrs. Wood & Meeker - arrived at Turkey 11.  Heard Parson Austin preach an excellent sermon, between meetings went to J. Crane's.  Wm. Wetmore & Wm. & Cyrus Beach went with me. - we ret'd. to meeting.  After meeting staid at Doct. Elmer's till sunset.  Talk'd with Parson Austin concerning Yale College.  He said he thot. it preferable far, to any on the Continent;- that the President was a man well calculated for his business, and the students were more like a society of men, than any other College afforded.10 M.] Call'd on Mr. Thompson before breakfast, to know if he wanted the land was about selling- he was about setting out for N. York - talk'd very cool on the subject - I left him.  Went to J. Ludlow's - he had before spoken to me of buying I set my price 1250 Dolls. he thot. it quite too high, and said he had determined to give no more than 1000.  We came over to look at it together.- after going over the place, he offer'd me 1100 Dolls.- 500 to be paid down, the rest next spring.  I fell to 1150, because the pay was good - we parted without agreeing.  Coming home in the afternoon, I saw him on Long hill - told him he might take it.  He is obliged to go to Pennsylvania where he has bargain'd for a farm, and get clear from that bargain.  If he gets off - he has mine for 1100 Dolls.  500 down - the rest in the spring.	To-day saw a full proof of what I had reason to fear, as mentioned in my memorandum of 26th June 1803.  I came to the house where the Lady lived, went into the Kitchen - enquired for her mother and sister who were there on a visit.  The black woman of whom I enquired, directed me to the upper room.  I turned and saw the Lady sitting in the room, asleep.  Conviction of the fact, struck me like a stroke of thunder - I stopp'd - deliberated whether to go on and let the family know, that I was acquainted with the deplorable secret,- or make some excuse to the wench and leave the house.  I wanted to see the gentleman of the house on business - I went on - as I entered the room, her son, about 7 years old ran to her - waked her and told her somebody wanted to see her.  She started up, with a wild stare, but said nothing.  After a considerable silence she said she felt very drowsy, it was after 11 last night before she went to bed.  I answer'd that it was drowsy weather.  By this time the husband came - a mutual salutation of 'How d'ye do' pass'd between us, but confusion and shame was strongly marked in his face.  The Lady rose to take her knitting work which lay on the table - she stumbled - but was supported by her husband.  He whisper'd that her mother wanted her in the other room - he conducted her thence.  I then distinguished sighs and a low voice as it were (from the tone and emphasis) of reproof.  The sister, shortly after, appear'd in the room where I was, her eyes were red with weeping;- and in silence she sat down to rock her child to sleep.	The husband after conducting his wife to the other room returned and we entered into some considerable conversation, and the gloomy scene pass'd away.  I arrived at Morris 7 o'clock - found A. Dickenson lately from Princeton.11 T.] Began to review the 1st Book of Xenophon - read 13 pages - even. rehears'd - talked with Mr. Pierson concerning Charles' going with me to Yale.  I expect he'll go.12 W.] Review'd 13 pages more.  Rehears'd again.13 T.] Read to the 40th page.- rehears'd again at evening - read some odes in Horace.14 F.] Read to the 52nd page.  Spent the evening at Doct. Campfield's.15 S.] Read to the 62nd page - rehears'd tragedy in the morning.16 Sunday] Did very little - went to Mr. Meeker's.17 M.] To-day I am 23 years old.  Read in Xenophon to the 73rd page.18 T.] Finished the first book of Xen. & began to review Homer.  Rehearsed the Tragedy in the evening.  Borrow'd of Mr. Stephenson a book call'd HARRIS' HERMES - read some in it.19 W.] Read in Homer. Mills, John Beach, A. Dickerson here all the even.20 T.] Read in Homer.  Evening read in Harris' Hermes.21 F.] Finished the first book of Homer.  Evening rehearsed.22 S.] Began, the 2nd - read 100 lines afternoon did not much.  Unwell, with a fluttering in the subcavities of the body.23 Sunday] Had the belly ache all the morning.- set out at 7 with D. Esty for Turkey.- arriv'd before meeting - heard Parson Austin preach - came home at 4 o'clock - call'd at Mr. Meeker's.  I staid at Mr. Esty's till 8.  Found Chas. Russell when I came home.  I was all day blowing and striking by means of the Diarrhea which lately seized me;- However	We set up till ten and talk'd and read	And about one I 'hit a bed.1224 M.] Rose before day and hasten'd to the Coffee-hosue to the state of affairs with the belligerent powers within.	Read in the 2nd Book of Homer.25 T.] Finished the 2nd Book of Homer.  Evening rehearsed, and spent some time at Mr. Richards', talking of New Haven College.26 W.] Began to review the IIIrd Book - read 250 lines - spent the evening at court.27 T.] Finished reviewing the 3rd Book.  Rehearsed the farce in the evening.28 F.] Borrow'd a Clavis Homerica of Philemon Dickerson - the first one I ever saw.	Read 270 lines in the IVth Book of Homer.- even'g. at Court.29 S.] Finished reviewing the IVth Book of Homer.  Rehearsed the plays.30 Sunday] Went to Church - after meeting to Mr. Meeker's.1804 October1M.] Read (in review) 300 lines of the Vth Book of Homer.  Training.  Trained in the afternoon.  Rehearsed in the evening.2 T.] Review'd 300 lines more.  Directors attended our rehearsal in the evening.3 W.] Finished the Vth book of Homer.  5 o'clock attended rehearsal.4 T.] Read 60 lines in the VIth Book in the morning.  Spent the most of the day at my dress for the play.  Evening rec'd. a letter from New Haven, by means of a Mr. Richards,- which stated the studies required to enter the different classes.- viz. The whole of Virgil (a person must have read) together with the four Evangelists, in Greek, in order to enter Freshman - the whole of the testament, Virgil, Cicero and some in Homer,- for Sophomore.  In addition to these the remainder of Homer, and Horace, for Junior.5 F.] Prepared for Exhibition - rehearsed before the Directors &c.  Evening play'd before a considerable audience.  My part - Lothario in the Tragedy - Quotem in the farce.6 S.] Read some in Homer - prepared a lesson in Xenophon for Exam.  Spent the evening in conversation with Mr. S. Akerley of N.Y. who came here Thursday last.7 Sunday] Forenoon read in the 6th Book of Homer.  Aftn. to Church.  Evening C. Russel & D. Esty till 11 o'clock - conversation chiefly de puellis.8 M.] Examination.- more than usual attended.  I read in Cicero, Xenophon & Homer.- evening Exhibition,- a very full house, many strangers.- J. Crane & wife from Turkey.  After the play went with Mr. Akerley to Freeman's where was a dance - left him and ret'd. in half an hour.9 T.] Morning very stormy - prepared for Turkey - distributed my dress - set out 11 o'clock,- went to Mr. Meeker's thence on foot to S. Muchmore's where J. & Betsey waited for me.- call'd at Brittin's, learn'd of Abrm. that Mr. Goodyear lives 7 miles from N. Haven on the Litchfield turnpike - arrived at Turkey before night - rode thro' a very cold storm - took cold.10 W.] Went in the morning to Mr. Littell's.  Rec'd. of him for the 6 mos. rent ending 1st inst. in Cash $30.17 - in repairs done by S. Parsons $2.83 in all 33 Dollars for which I gave my receipt.  He promised the remainder next week.  He is willing to give up the place if I sell my part.	Afternoon went to Uncle J. Ludlow's - he is sick and has not been to see the man with whom he bargain'd, therefore cannot give me an answer respecting our bargain.  We agreed to let the business rest as it is, and he is to send me word when he determines.	Ret'd. and went into the woods with J. Crane, found that all the wood which he is about purchasing of me amounts to 4-1/2 cords; viz. 1-1/2 cords in the woods - 1-1/4 burnt - 3/4 sold to Capt. Potter 1/2 carried to E.Town - and 1/2 Cord remaining by the door.			4-1/2 Cords @ 10/ is				£	2..5..       	He also bot. a Red oak railout for				  ..4..       									-------------										2..9..		I have at difft. times rec'd.					2..0..10		Had a horse shod on his a/c					    3..8       									-------------										2..4..6       									-------------										    4..6		John bot. some old sleigh irons for				    3..6       									-------------		Remains due							  ..8...which he agrees to pay to Levi, as some of the wood was from his land.  This is a Settlement in full of our accounts.	Evening saw Saml. Bailey - he talked of going next Monday morning to see a White Oak Plank-log, and if he liked it would leave the money for it with John.  Offered him my land on the N. side of the road at £14 p. acre with a reasonable price for the buildings - he did not object to the price - but said his intention was to go to Miamee, if he did not perhaps he would buy it in the spring.	I think £14 p. acre low - at that price the buildings must be $180.  the following I think not an extravagant calculation 12 acres @ 37-1/2 Dolls. is $450.  Build's. $150.- the whole $600.11 T.] Morning went to S. Parsons'.  He agreed to cut and put up a new well-crotch - he's to have for pay, the top of the tree he cuts,- an old pin oak which had been down three years and lines in the edge of the woods, together with the old crotch and in the bargain, if the tree he cuts for a crotch is longer than is necessary, he is to split what comes off of the butt into waggon spokes if will make them, if not into posts, and leave them piled up in order for seasoning.	11 o'clock went to J. Ludlow's and rec'd. the rem'r. due on a note ags. him in favor of J.C. & D.M. admnstr. of Debh. M. Dec'd. 4. remr. was 13.40 cents, which sum I appropriated to my own use, and have charged myself with it on the settlemt. paper of Dl. Mulford's estate.	Aftn. transferred two due bills ags. John Crane into [illegible] settlemt. paper, which paper now contains a correct statement of the accounts of the heirs of Deborah Mulford, except some desparate a/cs. which are yet to be taken from their divisions.	Took all the papers, beginning with the Inventory, and sewed them together in order, into a Book.12 F.] Having taken a violent cold last Tuesday, I felt this morning a severe pressure at my stomach.  I raised some blood as I did last February.	Took a note of J. Crane for $50 on demand, toward the land he has bot. of me.  I purpose leaving it in the hands of J. Wood that he may receive the money and send it on.	Set out 9 o'clock for Morris - call'd at the Doctr's. and staid till fter dinner.  Came from there to Mr. Meeker's on foot - arrived at Mr. Whelpley's before sunset.13 S.] Call'd on Mr. Bull and got my surtout, settled with him by an assumption of S. Whelpley.  Settled accounts with several.  Spent the evening at Mr. Esty's.  Carried Hudibras to the office to return it to S. Ogden - he invited me to take breakfast with him to-morrow morning.	To-day read the first Volume of Sterne's Sentimental Journey.14 Sunday] Rose soon after sunrise, call'd on C. Russell, he proposed and we went to Ogden's - 8 o'clock when we got there.  We went into Stephen's office talk'd & read.  Found Mc. Fingal a book I never saw before - we read the first Canto before breakfast, borrow'd the book.  After break. took a walk, and return'd to Church, in the forenoon.  Aftn. read 2 more cantos of Mc. Fingal - went to Isl. Canfd. where I dined.  Some conversation took place concerning Levi,- Mr. Canfield tho't he should leave it with Mr. Wood to conclude the bargain, and that it would be best that he should be bound to him.  His words were to this effect 'If he is bound to James, he will be here wile we continue together in business, and it will be the same as if he were bound to me - if we should not continue together perhaps it will be better for him and James both.'	I talked with Mr. Wood concerning terms - told him I tho't he might well afford (if Levi behaved himself as well as we had reason to expect he would) to allow his board and clothing till he is 21.  Mr. Wood answered that he perhaps could afford it, and if Levi were unable to find his own clothing he would do it.  But said that boys of his age and acquirements were frequently offered with all their clothing found.	No determination was made.  Mr. Meeker is to conclude the bargain.15 M.] Monday, settled all my accounts, balanced my Books & opened a new set commencing 17th inst.- found that my whole expenses since 1st of January last amounted to about $111,- 50 of which I had paid in teaching school during the time;- the remainder is Property spent.	Aftn. call'd on Chas. Pierson who has talked of going with me to Yale - he has concluded to go to Princeton.  Evening went to Freemans where a number of young gentlemen of the town collected,- viz. S. & P. Johnson, H. & C. Russel, Mills, Esty, Wm. Beach, Whelpley & myself, we styled ourselves the Hubbub-Club.  We took supper, and drank wine till 12.  Bill 8/.16 T.] Morning Mr. Whelpley wrote a letter of Introduction for me, to Pres't. o Yale College,- the Directors of our Academy signed it.  Afternoon finished reading Mc. Fingal & Sentimental Journey of Sterne.- prepared for setting out on my Journey, to-morrow to New Haven.17 W.] Before Breakfast Ch. Ross call'd for me with the Chair - took leave of Morris - went with Mr. Meeker to Turkey.  Stormy.  Signed a deed to John Crane for my Stoney Hill meadow, and rec'd. $150 in cash - 50 I had rec'd. some days ago in a note.18 T.] Rec'd. of Mr. Littell the rem. of the 6mos. rent ending 1st inst. which is $22 - I have ta'n. the whole 55 to myself and Mr. Meeker has all next Spring.  All day Stormy.- wrote to Wm. Whelpley a 					Journey.19 F.] Set out with John Crane, in a Chair for E. Town Pt.  Acknowledged the deed at Springfield before Judge Wade (Jonas) Call'd at Captn. Cory's, John paid him for a headstone fro David, which is to be set up this fall - came to the Pt. - waited till night for a passage,- ret'd. to town and staid all night at Caleb Halstead's.20 S.] After breakfast Chas. Ross (who was at Halstead's on a visit) came with me to the pt. in a Chair - Set off for N.Y. 1/2 past 10.  Arrived after 1, aftn.  In Broad Way met Mr. Whelpley.  Dined at Mr. Lovell's - 3 o'clock call'd on Mr. Whelpley at Mr. Swarthout's - call'd on Mrs. Smith - went to Doct'r. Mitchel's.  The Doctor shewed us a new edition of Cicero printed in N.York and dedicated to him.- gave me two sheets containing the Dedication & address to the Reader one for myself and one to present to Dr Dwight when I arrived at N.Haven.	Left the Doct's. 1/2 past 7.  Sa. Akerley went with us to see a painting of the Battle of Alexandria call'd The Panorama - it was short.	I came to Mr. Lovell's - brot. up my trunk from Morris Stage-office where Crane had left it.  Staid at Mr. Lovell's all night.21 Sunday] Forenoon went with E. Potter to Dr. Foster's Church in Rose St.  This man was formerly a Universalist, but differing from them on some points they rejected him, and his friends have built him a church.	His text was from the    verse of the 10th Chapter of Hebrews - in substance this 'For if men were condemn'd for rebelling against the Mosaic Law, how much more, think ye, ought they to be condemn'd for tamping under foot Jesus Christ'	He first established (in his method) that men were composed of two ingredients - the spirit of God and the lusts of the flesh.  He then went on and shew'd the Law tyrannical (nevertheless a good law and such as the people at that time required) and such as men were prone to transgress - that Jesus Christ and his gospel were merciful - that in the judgment of man he who sinn'd against him deserved eternal punishment, but that God's judgment was far otherwise and cited the prayer of Christ on the cross, 'Father forgive them, they know not what they do' - urging that God was not tyrannical but merciful - he urged and proved from many texts that the Spirit of God was in every man (this he calls the intelligence of man) and his whole sermon seem'd to go to prove that if man sinned, it was not the Holy ghost within him, that is, his soul,- therefore the soul could not be punished for it.  His reason was if the soul be from God it is a spark of him - if that sinned, it was at variance with God, and God was divided against himself, therefore could not exist long.  He asked how the third person in the sacred Trinity, viz. the Holy Ghost, which is the soul of man (as he proved) could be at variance with the other two, and still that kingdom stand.	Afternoon and evening attended the same meeting he continued on the same subject.  Aftn. his discourse was principally this, 'Who, or what are the perpetrators of the crime of tramping on Christ? i.e. of rejecting him and his mercy? for so he construed the phrase trampling on Christ.'  Is it the soul of man - man's intelligence?  No - because this is the Holy Ghost, the third person in the Godhead, and God cannot be at variance with himself.  It is the lust (that is the evil propensities) of the flesh, those desires which the body of man, not the soul, the intelligence given by God, creates, and which are in a close connection with the soul while soul and body are united.  This he says in the Devil, and there is no other Devil in God's universe - that same Devil that tempted Christ, and prompted Paul to persecute the Christians.	Evening's discourse came under two question - first If what is generally term'd sin, is committed not by the soul but by the lusts of the flesh, how is it to be punished? & 2ndly, What is the duty of Man?	1st answd.  Is the soul to be punish'd eternally?  No: that is the same as to punish a man for what he is not guilty - the soul is not the culprit.  The lust of the flesh is to be punish'd, for that is the offender - but how?  By destroying the fleshly tabernacle, that is to say all crimes are committed by the body (his phrase was by an agent without intelligence) and are punished satisfactorily on the death of the body - and the soul returns to God and is an heir of eternal glory.  2nd ans: The duty of man is to pattern after God,- reject and restrain fleshly lust, which warreth continually with the holy spirit, or the true soul, and is the Devil, the only Devil in the universe, which is the source of all man's evil.	Query, of my own,- If crimes are punished by death only, that is the death of the body, what profit is it to be virtuous and good, since all die equally in the flesh, and all are equally rec'd. into glory hereafter?	Call'd at Mrs. Dodge's after the afternoon meeting.22 M.] Went before breakfast to engage a Passage to N.Haven.  Engaged in the Juno Capt. Bradley - $4 Dolls. all found.	Forenoon sold 53 Dolls. at 2 pc. premium to Danl. Moore - aftn. was walking with Mr. Whelpley till he went home. - then in Mr. Lovell's store - evening went with E. Potter to the Theatre, which open'd this night - saw the Clandestine Marriage.23 T.] Call'd on the Captn. with whom I engaged a passage - he does not sail till tomorrow, on account of eastwardly winds - went to Mrs. Smith's.  Lent Mr. Lovell $150.  Call'd on Captn. Green - S. Akerley.  Returned 7 o'clock and took a Note of Mr. Lovell for the money I lent him.24 W.] Mr. Lovell gave me a letter of Introduction to Street Heylos & Co., in which was an order for money if wanted.- Carried my trunk on board Capt. Bradley's packet.  We sail'd about 1/2 past 9 in the morning.  It was rainy, wind S.W. till we got thro' Hell Gate,- then it ceas'd raining and was quite calm till we got some distance beyond Erog Point.  2 o'clock a breeze sprung up, which lasted 2 or 3 hours - between 7 and 8 a stiff breeze sprang up which lasted us to N.Haven Harbor - we arrived there about 1 o'clock in the morning.  Till this time I had been up and principally on deck - I now turn'd in.	There were 11 passengers - 3 Collegians - 2 for N.H. beside myself, and 1 to Cambridge.25 T.] Rose about sunrise - paid my passage ($4.) and sent on Shore - breakfasted at Mr. Butler's.  After breakfast took my letters and went to the College.  (I had before heard that Dr. Dwight was not at home.)  Happened first to meet Tutor Hoadley - I enquired for some person who would attend to my examination,- he took me to one of the other Tutors rooms - they read my letters and appointed 2 o'clock afternoon for my examination.  At 2 o'clock call'd. at Tutor Hoadley's room, Mr. Kingsly, anotehr Tutor came there, by appointment, they examined me on the Testament, Homer, Horace, Geography, Geometry, Trigonometry and Algebra,- was admitted as junior, first agreeing to prepare myself by next examination, in Conic Sections and Priestley's lectures, which two studies the present Juniors have studied.	Mr. Kingsly appointed me a room with a Mr. Fowler, lately from William's College,- look'd for some furniture - and at night first supp'd with the Students.26 F.] Lodged last night at a tavern (Mr. Butler's) - Rose at the ringing of the College Bell - came up to recitation in Tully de Oratore at 1/2 past 6.	This forenoon collected some things for furnishing our room, and afternoon got at fire and prepared the room for living in it.- could not procure a bed - slept with my Room-mate.27 S.] Before breakfast recited Tully,- 11th & 12th Sections.- 11 o'clock recited 30 lines of the beginning of the 3rd Book of Homer.  Afternoon studied my lessons for Monday.28 Sunday] Attended the regular service at the Chapel, viz. prayers in the morning a little before sunrise - two sermons, and prayers at 5 in the afternoon, when a sermon was read.  Dr. Dwight preach'd - this is the first time I ever saw him.  Attended some to my studies.29 M.] Attended to the studies and made the recitations.  To-day began Webber's Mathematics & Enfield's Philosophy.  Recited Tully in the morning, Webber at noon and Enfield at 4.  Evening read the first of Priestley's Lectures.30 T.] Made recitations as yesterday.-went to hear speaking in the house of Assembly.  Evening studied Conic Sections.31 W.] Recited Tully in the morning - Webber at 11.  Agreed with my room mate to lodge with him at 12-1/2 cents p.week - recited Philosophy at 4.  Afternoon heard a lecture on Chemistry by Professor Silliman, this the first lecture of his winter course,- he is to deliver 2 in a week.1804 November1 T.] Made the usual recitations.  At evening was admitted into the Linonian Society - attended a meeting.2 F.] Made the usual recitations. - heard another Lecture on Chemistry.3 S.] 11 o'clock recited Homer.  Wrote a letter to James Wood, requesting him to sign a Bond for me as surety to the President and Fellows of the College, that I would pay whatever debts I contracted under the laws of their institution.  Evening read some in Conic Sections.4 Sunday] Attended all the worship at the Chapel.  Read in Conic Sections.5 M.] Made the usual recitations - morning do. Homer.  Evening wrote a letter to John Crane.6 T.] Morning recited the 23rd and 24th sections of the 1st Book of Tully de Oratore - 11,- from the 4th to the 10th in Mensuration of Solids, in Webber - 4,- the 4th Chapter of Mechanics in Enfield.  Evening took a copy of Canf. & Wood's business with I. Goodyear.7 W.] Morning recited Tully.- at 9 heard another Chemical Lecture.  Afternoon hired a horse of Mr. Bradley for 75 cents, and went to see Mr. Goodyear.  I found him at a small distance from home.  He said he could not then do anything in the business,- although he had made a bad contract, in Jersey, by which he sunk $4000, he was nevertheless willing, and meant when he once got it in his power, to pay all his honest debts,- that he could not at that time raise 20 dollars;- that he had given up already, to his creditors all his stock, and at present had nothing in the stock kind which he could call his own.  On my mentioning the idea he agree'd to bring me a load of wood next week, and to supply me with that article thro' the winter.  He said that he thot. his account with Mr. Wood was not so much - that he had a copy of it at home the amount of which if he recollected was but 16 Pounds, or near that.  He also mention'd a credit which he had in this account, and concluded that the acct. at home was the balance, and this which I had brot. was the whole amt. of charges against him without the credit.	I informed him that Mr. Wood said nothing to me about a credit.  He wish'd the account, to compare it with that at home, also wanted the letter I carried from Mr. Wood that he might look it over at his liesure;- I left both with him.  He said there were 3 men who assisted him in making the turnpike in Jersey, and whom he had not made a settlement,- that they owed him something,- they live in the country some distance back;- that he should go and see them soon, but would call on me at the college before he went, and would then tell me farther what he could do in the business;- he said he thot. it likely he would call next week.  He farther said, that when he made the contract, the proprietors said they did not wish him to lose by it, and intimated that they would see him whole if he was like to sustain loss by it.  But as that was not an article of agreement he had no lawful claims of that kind, and would sometime or other pay this amount, except Mr. Canfield, being one of the proprietors with whom he had made the contract, which he had fulfill'd, and by which he had sustain'd great loss, should see fit to favor him.- that he had property enough in his hands, and more than enough to clear him, but his land was all under mortgages, and that was all his property, for his stock he had wholly given up.- that if his creditors shoved him they could not benefit themselves, but if they would rest, he should dispose of his property as fast as he could to advantage, and would pay them all.	Evening attended Linonian Society.8 T.] Made the usual recitations.  Evening wrote a dispute which is the exercise of next Monday 11 o'clock.9 F.] Made the usual recitations.  Evening studied algebra.10 S.] Recited Tully, both morning and noon.  The Study of Homer is dropped till we get thro' the first book of Tully.  Afternoon took from the Linonian Library the 17th vol. of the Encyclo. containing Stenography.  This is the first System of short-hand I ever saw.  The following is the alphabet:       [here he transcribes it]the , (when a) is written at the top of the side and when e half way down the side,- and (when i) at the bottom.  So also ., for o,u,y.  besides these characters there are many abbreviations.  I took off a full copy of the Alphabet, and Abbrevs.11 Sunday] Somewhat unwell - Attended sermons & prayers.  Evening went to a Singing meeting.12 M.] Forenoon wrote a letter to Wm. A. Whelpley,- in which I gave a history of what has passed since I saw him, and promis'd in my next, the situation of the Colleges & Phys: of the faculty.  Dispute at 11 o'clock - in place of recitation.13 T.] Attended to usual business.14 W.] Forenoon heard Lecture in Chemistry.  Attended to other recitations.  Evening do.15 T.] Thanksgiving.  Sermon preached in the Chapel by Doct. Dwight.16 F.] Attended recitations.  Evening wrote a dispute.  Rec'd. a letter from Jas. Wood, with the bond enclosed, and executed, together with a certificate from Mr. Whelpley, Syl. Russel and Dr. Campfield shewing Mr. Wood's ability to perform the bond.17 S.] Forenoon heard the 5th Chemical Lecture.  Proceeded in Webber to Surveying.18 Sunday] Attended the meetings in the Chapel.  Read and took notes from the 4th & 5th Lectures of Priestley.19 M.] Made the usual recitations.  Gave my bond to Mr. Twining the College treasurer.20 T.] Made our recitations.  We were advanced, in Webber, to Navigation, omitting Surveying because it was thot. not a good treatise.  I took Tasso's Jerusalem from the Linonian Library, and Pindar in the Original (Greek) from the College Library.  Evening read the Life of Tasso and 2 books of the Poem.  The description of Tasso's Person is as follows - Tall, large boned, sinewy, spare,- black hair, black eyes, pale faced,- and towards the latter part of his life bald.  He was the son of a man of rank tho' not of great fortune.- he was educated for a lawyer, but inclining to the study of the muses, he never did anything at the law, and spent a life of trouble without acquiring any property - he died in the 52 year of his age.21 W.] Recited 47th and 8th sections of Tully - first lecsson of Navigation.- heard the 7th Lecture on Chemistry.  Paid my back tuition $32. - took Twining's rect.22 T.] Made the usual recitations.  Evening wrote a composition on tenses in grammar.23 F.] Recited as usual.  Projectiles in Enfield.  Heard Mr. Silliman's 8th Lecture.24 S.] Recited 53rd and 54th Sections of Tully - went Oblique sailing in Webber.  Afternoon read the 10th Book of Tasso's Jerusalem delivered.  Found many things very pleasing, particularly, the actions of Iminia when she dress'd herself in Clounda's armour and went by night from the city to the Christian camp to seek Tancred with whom she was deeply in love, and who had lately been severely wounded by Argantes the Egyptian, in single combat,- she is surprised and turns to flight - is rec'd. the next day by a shepherd.  Her conversation with him and her lamentations are very interesting.25 Sunday] Last night I dreamed hearing William of the Senior Class and another person sing a song in two parts, which had the following fuge.	[here several bars of music, with lyrics illegible]I can't remember any more words than what are written.  The song seem'd to be a kind of burlesque upon an unfortunate young Lady, the word self was emphatical, and as the two parts moved the air was extremely brisk and beautiful.26 M.] Made the usual recitations.27 T.] Do.  Wrote a letter to Mr. S. Whelpley, in which was something said respecting the introduction of hexameter into English verse.  I gave the following, as a specimen.Description of Yale College [with long and short syllables marked; not transcribed here]	High on a plain, looking Eastward stands this building majestic	Rearing its head to the skies: As soon as Sol's yellow rays shoot	Forth from the ocean to pour out their gold on the westerly hill-tops,	Darting on Yale's broad front, they give it a glimmering lustre.                   I saw this subject treated in a Literary Miscellany which I this day subscribed for and rec'd. the first number.28 W.] Heard the 9th Lecture on Chemistry.  At 2 o'clock afternoon Professor Goodrich delivered a lecture on Law.- these Law lectures are to be given once a fortnight.	Attended Linonian Society, at evening.29 T.] Morning recited 59th & 60th sections of the 1st Book of Tully.- at 11 a dispute of the 1st division of the class. - 4 recit'd Enfield, in Projectiles.  Evening wrote a dispute for next Monday.30 F.] Made all the recitations.1804 December1 S.] Join'd and attended the Musical Concert.- a society of singer.2 Sunday] Wrote a letter to Jas. Wood & one to Mr. Lovell.- Read Priestly.3 M.	} Attended to the usual Business.  Wednesday evening heard an Oration delivered in the brick Church by a member of the [Phi Beta Kappa] Society.4 T.	}5 W.	}6 T.] Attended to the usual recitations.  Rec'd. a letter from Wm. A. Whelpley, stating that T. J. Lewis is married to Miss S. Woodhull.  Saw Mr. Joel Goodyear who again promised to bring me a load of wood next week.7 F.] Heard the 12th Chemical lecture.  Lesson in Webber beginning of Mercator Sailing.  In Enfield, the second lesson in Hydrostatistics.8 S.] Wrote a letter to D. E. Esty and one to Phil. Dickerson at Princeton College.9 Sunday	}10 M.		} Attended to the usual business of the Class.  Tuesday paid my Quarter bill to Mr. Twining,- it was $5.59  Wednesday heard the 13th Chemical Lecture.11 T.		}12 W.		}13 T.] Finish'd navigation.  Made all my recitations.14 F.] Paid my quarter bill of board 13.37 poor Dollars, to Mr. Beers took his rec't.15 S.] Attended to the usual business.16 Sunday] Did not go to prayers this morning.  Attended church.17 M.] Sent a letter to Wm. Whelpley, giving account of the situation of the College, and of the Physiognomy of the Faculty.  Rec'd. a load of wood of Mr. Goodyear, for $2.5018 T.] Morning lesson, Homer's 4th book 100th line and onwards.  Webber, in Orthographic projection in Spherical Geometry.  Philosophy, last lesson in Specific gravity.19 W.] Attended recitations.  Heard the 16th lecture in Chemistry, and 3rd in Law.20 T.] Made our usual recitations.  Evening employed in writing a dispute.21 F.] Homer lesson 210th to 245th line in 4th Book.  Webber, the laws of Stereographic projection.  Enfield 55th and 56th Prop. of Book III.	Rec'd. a letter from Phil. Dickerson & one from Mr. S. Whelpley.22 S.] Made usual recitations.23 Sunday] Attended Church.24 M.] Disputed in the class, the question of the policy of permanent Navy.25 T.] *Christmas.  Staid at home in my room and studied.  No recitations.26 W.] Heard the 18th Lecture in Chemistry.  Made recitations.27 T.	}28 F.	} Attended to the usual business.  Friday heard Chemical Lecture 19th on Hydrogen.  Sat. went to court, heard a little speaking by Dagget, Ingersol, &c.29 S.	}30 Sunday] Attended public worship - finished writing a composition exhibit in the class this week,- I stile it Bombast - it is a satire on bombastic writing.31 M.] Morning finished the 4th book of Homer - Class disputed at 11 - at 4 the recitation of Enfield was the beginning of Magnetism.  Wrote a letter to Levi.	This year has brot. a change in my place of abode but not in my employment.		Ascending Science's rugged steep,		Another year, that path I keep,		Whose winding mazes tho' obscure,		Discover pleasures firm & pure.		13Linonia bids me keep the track,		And lest my progress be too slack,		Offers her hand to lead me up,		To Fame's high temple's highest top.		Points where the sounding Goddess stands		And sends abroad, to distant lands,		The name of him whose feet have trod		The path to her sublime abode.		O blue-eye'd Goddess, heav'nly maid!		Still give your humble vot'ry aid,		Support his steps with your right arm		Send to his heart your potent charm.		So may your kingdom wide extend,		Know no cessation, bounds or end;		Your subjects' aim forever be		At science, peace and Liberty.