1805 January1 T.] Attended all the recitations.2 W.] Between 1 & 2 was called up to a fire.  A house burned quite down.  Morning we began to review the 2nd Book of Homer.  Webber,- began Spheric Trigonometry.- Enfield, finish'd Magnetism.  To-day heard the 19th Lecture on Chemistry - 4th on Law.3 T.] Attended to recitations.  Afternoon went to Court where I saw Pierpoint Edwards,- the first time I ever saw him.  He is a handsome built man, speaks with the greatest fluency and ease.  His oratory is extremely engaging.4 F.] Attended to business.5 S.] Recited Homer both times.  Afternoon the Class    met at our recitation room to hear the productions of the Satirist & Eulogist, that were some time ago appointed.  Mr. Wilkinson, Satirist, read first - he had not gone more than half thro' the Class.  Mr. Todd, Eulogist, read longer than Wilkinson considerable.  After they had finished reading new ones were appointed to exhibit at the end of next term.  The class saw fit to choose Ufford Eulogist and me Satirist.6 Sunday] Afternoon went to the Episcopal Church (Dr. Dwight out of town) saw a handsome girl, which is a rare thing in N.Haven.  Evening attended the voluntary Union (a musical Society) where I officiated as Pres: to which situation I was chosen last meeting.7 M.] Finished reviewing 3rd Book of Homer.  Finished Electricity in Enfield.8 T.] This is the day of Exhibition by the Students.  The ex. began at 1 o'clock,- lasted till almost night.  At evening went to the commencement ball, took no ladies,- returned at 9 o'clock, because I did not know how to dance, knew not one of the ladies at the ball and there was no one else there but what did dance, so that I was as it were alone, and as I thot. did not receive much attention from the managers.	This evening the Students of the Junior class having previously collected 40 bottles of wine, collected to drink it.  They got into a high frolic and were ordered by the tutors to disperse.  Bacchus, however, offering them protection against the power of this earthly institution, they proceeded in their measures till they saw fit to stop.  Some got drunk, and many were not far from it.  They began about 7 o'clock and continued till past 9 - they were however so nearly thru' when I return'd from the ball, I did not join them.  It is expected some will be dismiss'd from College.9 W.] A stormy day.  I took board at Mr. Hotchkiss' with Bacon, Fowler & Rudd of our Class.  Began to read Conic Sections.10 T.] Finished reading the Ellipse.  Evening went with Boyle & Bates to Abm. Bishop's.11 F.] Settled with my room mate all accounts to this date.  Play'd whist with Bacon, Boyle & Fowler.  This the first time I ever play'd the game.  Read part of the Hyperbola.12 S.] Not being pleased with my board at Hotchkiss', I settled with him, and took board at Mrs. Baldwin's for 2.50 Dollars p.week, in company with Boyle, Tully & Bates of Virginia.  This afternoon learned the game of Back-gammon.  Evening finished the Hyperbola.13 Sunday] Unpleasant weather - did not go to church.  Read some in Literary Miscellany.14 M.] Finished reading Conic Sections.  In company with Fowler, Tully & Bates (Students).  Set up almost all night to see a total eclipse of the moon, which began at 2 o'clock.  The sky was clear and the prospect was very handsome.	To-day I first play'd with Tully the game of Piquet.15 T.] Read about 30 pages of Fenn's Algebra.  Play'd some at Piquet.16 W.] Read in Fenn's Algebra, and began to read Webber's system,- began at Equations.17 T.] Read Webber's Algebra.  At evening rec'd. from the post office the first number of H.P. Russel's paper, which I wrote for some days ago.  Rec'd. also a letter from Mr. Meeker, stating that Mr. Schureman wishes to buy my land,- and that S. Bailey will buy the house and what lies on the north side of the road. - Mr. Meeker requested an answer stating my price.	Evening went with Mr. Boyle to see the Miss Lyons, four young ladies at one house, daughters of the Cashire of N.Have Bank.  We spent the evening principally at playing whist.  The ladies are quite agreable,- one handsome & accomplished, the rest not ordinary.  On the whole found it a very harmless, gentle and agreeable den of Lionesses.18 F.] Boyle & Tully spent the forenoon at our room in conversation.  Afternoon, read Algebra,- Spent the evening at Mrs. Baldwin's when we play'd Whist with Sally and the old lady.19 S.] Read Quadratic Equations forenoon.  Spent the afternoon playing Whist in Boyle's room.  Evening sick in consequence of eating too many apples in the afternoon, went to bed 1/2 past 6.20 Sunday] Did not go to Church.  Wrote a letter to Mr. Meeker, respecting the sale of my land, price for the whole $1200 Dolls. - for the north side of the road $500.  Wrote also to John Crane.  Evening went with Boyle to Spring's singing school.21 M.] Read Algebra.  To-day is the first time I ever heard of Mr. Curran the Famous Irish Orator.  Read some in a book entitled Curran's Speeches.22 T.] Read in Curran's Speeches,- and in Johnson's Rambler.  Evening wrote in my poem which I entitle the benefits of Physiognomy or The Physiognomist.  Rec'd. Letter from D.K. Esty.23 W.] This morning heard of the Discovery of a nation of Welchmen inhabiting high up the Missouri.  This nation is said to be the descendants of a considerable Welch prince who left his native country some considerable time before Columbus discovered America.  The nation speak the Welch language almost purely have not the use of iron - are judged to be 50,000 strong.24 T.] Forenoon read in Junius' Letters.  Aftn. and evening finished the first draft of my piece call'd 'Physiognomist'.25 F.] Rec'd. a letter from Wm. A. Whelpley.  Forenoon transcribed my Physiognomist.  Spent the afternoon at Tully's room read certain little pieces of poetry written by his friends.  Evening read paper &c.26 S.] Settled with Mr. Mead, my washing bill to this date,- which was 11/6.  Read Junius.27 Sunday] Very stormy (snow & hail) - read with Tully, Tristram Shandy.  Spent the evening at Tully's room.28 M.] Storm continued with equal severity.  Forenoon read Junius.  Went with Spring, Boyle & Tully, to dine at Bloomfield's.  Had an excellent dinner of Oysters - drank a bottle of wine, sang some songs and plaid backgammon till 4, when we ret'd. to College - bill .75 cents.  Evening read Junius - look'd over some Compositions &c, &c.29 T.] Read in Junius.30 W.] Finished Junius.  Read a small work entitled 'The Hindoo Philosopher', written by Professor Silliman.  Spent the evening at Tully's room playing Whist and Backgammon.31 T.] Settled with Mrs. Baldwin, my board during vacation- bill 7 Dollars.  Dined in the Hall.  Began to read Walker's Geography, which work I borrowed of Mr. Boyle.1805 February1 F.] Recited 3 lessons in Homer, reviewing the 4th Book.  On account of the bad weather, few of the students arrived.  Read Walker's Geography.  2 S.] Recited Homer.  Read Walker's Geog.  Borrowed a Virgil of I.G. and agreed with Mr. Boyle to recite a lesson, with him every day, in Virgil, to recite before Mr. Hoadley at 9 in the morning.3 Sunday] Went to church forenoon - dined at Mrs. Baldwin's - afternoon studied Virgil.  Spent part of the evening at Tully's room.4 M.] At 9 Recited Virgil, beginning at the 200th line of the 7th book.- went to the 400th.  Recited Homer in the Class.  Read some in Walker's Geog.5 T.	}6 W.	}7 T.	} Attended to usual business.  Began to Study Optics, Monday.  Recited with Boyle 200 lines a day in Virgil.8 F.	}9 S.	}10 Sunday] Attended at the chapel.  Wrote a letter to Wm. Whelpley, imitating the stile of Junius.  Evening went to a meeting and to Spring's singing school with J.B. Strong.11 M.] Attended to usual business.  Evening went to Read's singing school.12 T.] In Enfield finished Refraction.  Tully, 18th Section,- Virgil, 400th Line of the 9th book.13 W.] To day there was an ordination at one of the churches in town.  Dr. Dwight was moderator and preached the sermon.  There was a great assembly of people.  The singing was good.  There was about 100 singers well proportioned on the parts, accompanied by a bass viol, a clarionett, three violins & a flute.  They performed Italy, Victory & the Judgment anthem.  This was the best vocal music I ever heard.14 T.] Attended to usual business.15 F.] Rec'd. a letter from my sister Betsey Crane.16 S.] Attended to the usual business.  Attended the musical concert at 2 o'clock.17 Sunday] Attended the sermons in the Chapel.- wrote part of a dispute to exhibit in the class to-morrow,- on the policy of the Sedition bill.  Evening till 7 at singing meeting,- till 10 at Mrs. Baldwin's with Tully.18 M.] Lesson in Tully 24 & 25th Sections of the 2nd Book.  Noon dispute.  Aftn. lesson Enfield.19 T.	}20 W.	} Attended to the usual business.  Finished the 11th Book of Virgil with Boyle.  Enfield, in vision affected by reflection.  Friday rec'd. a letter from LEVI.  Saturday, spent the afternoon with Mr. Cox, a student of our class, at his room.21 T.	}22 F.	}23 S.	}24 Sunday] Attended church in the Chapel.  Read the geography of England, Scotland & Ireland, in Walker.25 M.] Tully lesson 37 & 38th Sec.s. of II Book.  Virgil 1st 250 lines in 12th Book.  Enfield, proceeded to colours.  Exchanged Webber, at Cook's store, for Flint's Surveying and a Due bill of 3 Dolls.  Bou't. a Desk for 4 Dollars.  Evening began a Dispute for the class on this question, 'Whence have Springs their origin?'  Wrote 1/2 a Sheet.26 T.] Attended to the usual business of the class.  Evening wrote 1/2 Sheet more in my dispute.27 W.] Made usual recitations.  Spoke first time in the Chapel.  Even'g wrote another half sheet.28 T.] Attended the recitations of the Class.  Finished the Eneid.  wrote another half sheet.1805 March1 F.] Finished Rainbow in Enfield.  Began the Bucolics, with Boyle, recited 2 first, wrote evening.2 S.] Forenoon studied.  Afternoon took a walk, with Tully to the Cotton factory.  Eveing finished my dispute, containing 3 sheets.3 Sunday	}4 M.		}5 T.		} Attended to the usual business.  Finished the first book of the Georgics in Virgil.  Was admitted into the Rhetorical Society.6 W.		}7 T.		}8 F.] Began to review Enfield, having proceeded to Astronomy.  Mr. Silliman gave his last Lecture for this winter.  A day or two ago began to study Flint's Surveying.9 S.] Attended to usual business.  Wrote in my Satire.10 Sunday] Attended meeting at the Chapel.  Read 300 lines in the 3rd Georgic of Virgil.11 M.	} Attended to Usual Business.  Rec'd. of Street Hughs & Co. 40 Dolls.12 T.	}13 W.] Finished the 4th Georgic.  Concluded to suspend my recitations of the Latin for the present.  Paid my Quarter bill for board $17.  Tuition bill &c to Twining $7.75.14 T.] Enfield, reviewing,- at the Cycloid.  Evening wrote in my Satire.15 F.] Attended to usual business of the class.  Evening attended the Rhetorical Society.16 S.] Rec'd. a letter from Wm. A Whelpley, stating that he expects to leave Morris in April.17 Sunday] Attended church.  Wrote a letter to Whelpley & one to J. Crane.  Spent the evening at Mrs. Baldwin's in company with Cande, Spencer, & Norton.18 M.	} Attended to the business of the class.  Had a field-book to calculate on the rectangular method of Surveying.19 T.	}20 W.] Another sum to calculate in rectangular surveying.  Finish'd my Satire.  Evening attended the Lin. Society.21 T.] In class disputed extemporaneously;- the first ex.tem. dispute I have perform'd in College.  Evening read some in Adam's Geography.  Spent some time at Devotion's room.22 F.] Finish'd surveying - proceeded in reviewing philosophy as far as central forces.  Copied my satire - it contains 344 lines.23 S.] Began to review Webber,- first lesson, 4 first problems in Mensuration.  After recitation, before dinner, exhibited my Satire before the company of Sat'sts. & Ulog'sts.24 Sunday] Attended meeting in the chapel.  Read the three first lectures of Priestley.  Evening attended the singing school of Mr. D'l. Read.  Aft. school Cande call'd at our room.25 M.] Attended to the business of the class.  Evening went with Boyle to the Lions' den.  Sophia not yet ret'd. from  N.York.  Spent the evening in playing whist & telling fortunes.26 T.] Spent the most of the forenoon on the theorem in Webber which proves that the square root of the product arising form the continual multiplication of the differences between the several sides and 1/2 sum, in any trapezium, will give the true area.  Afternoon lesson in Enfield through central forces.  To-day took from the College Library the first volume of Spencer's Fairy Queen.27 W.] Began to review Tully de Oratore, read 3 sections a day.  Read the two first cantos of the first book of the Fairy Queen.  Evening attended Linonian Society.28 T.	} Attended to usual business.  Friday even'g attended Rhetorical So.29 F.	}30 S.] Took from the Society Library Middleton's life of Cicero.31 Sunday] Attended at the Chapel, and read in Life of Cicero - evening went to Read's singing school.1805 April1 M.] Forenoon disputed in the class.  Evening wrote on a composition to read in class next Friday.  Read some in Middleton's Cicero.2 T.] Attended to the studies of the class.  Read some in Middleton.  Borr'd of Hennen of our class, a treatise on Greek & Latin versification.  Evening finish'd my composition.3 W.] Forenoon recited - afternoon attended law lecture, speaking &c. finish'd the first volume of Middleton's Cicero.  Evening attended Linonian Society.4 T.] Attended to the studies of the class.  Evening read the treatise I borrow'd of Hennen.5 F.] Morning read my composition on English Hexameters, before the class.  Evening rec'd. a letter from Betsey Crane, wrote an answer immediately.  Attended an exhibition given by the Rhetorical Society in the Chapel.6 S.] Perform'd the recitations.  Finished reviewing the 1st book of Tully.  Aftern. began to read a second time Middleton's Cicero.7 Sunday] Got permission to go to meeting out in town.  Forenoon went to the Episcopal Church.  Afternoon, to the white haven meeting house.  Aft. meeting went home with Mr. Baldwin and took tea.  Evening read some in Middleton.  Spent the rest of the evening in Mr. Hoadley's room.8 M.] Election in town.  No recitations at 11 or at 4 - about 11 went the brick meeting house where the election was held.  In this town, David Dagget & Jerem'h. Townsend were chosen representatives - Trumbull Governor, Tradewell Lieutenant Gov.  I did not stay to hear treasurer proclaimed.  Read in Middleton & the Fairy Queen.  Evening read some in a treatise by Foster, on Greek, Latin & English Accent & Quantity.9 T.] Attended to the business of the class.10 W.] Attended to the class business.  Afternoon read in the 2nd vol. of Middleton's Cicero.11 T.] Disputed extemporaneously before the class.  No recitation in the afternoon.  Mr. Hoadley went home.  Read life of Cicero.12 F.] Fast day throughout Connecticut.  Two sermons in the Chapel.  Finished life of Cicero.13 S.] No recitations, Mr. Hoadley not yet return'd.  To-day took from the Library Callatin on finances, and borrowed from L. Mitchel of our class, a pamphlet containing a report made to congress by Hamilton in 1798 from which books I obtained some ideas of the Funding system of the United States,- learn'd the meaning of the 6 per cent [differed?] and three per cent stocks.  This is the first time I ever attended to the subject.14 Sunday] Attended meeting in the Chapel.  Saw there Judge Paterson of N. Jersey, who is now in N.Haven, on business of his office. - the first time I ever saw him.15 M.] Attended to the usual business of the class.  Spent the evening at Mr. Baldwin's with Tully.16 T.] Finished reviewing Webber.  Went, at noon to the court where Judge Paterson presided.  Heard P. Edwards speak.17 W.] Began to review Optics in Enfield.  On a dispute, Whether the Funding system has been beneficial, spake about 1/2 an hour extemporaneously, in the negative.18 T.] Attended to the business of the class.  Read some in Conic Sections.19 F.] Attended to usual business.  Evening attended the Rhetoric society.  read in the 5th vol. of the Works of Spencer.20 S.] Took from the Brothers' Library, Bisset's Life of Bourke, - aftern. read in it.21 Sunday] Attended meeting in the Chapel.  Read in the life of Bourke.  Spent the evening at Lion's with Boyle, & Cox of our class.- three of the ladies were at home.  The most of the evening was spent in usual chat, toward 9 we began to play several little sorts of girl play, as rub the button &c.--- returned between 10 & 11.22 M.] Recited our last lesson in reviewing Enfield.  Read some in Burke's life.  This morning after recitation took a walk with Cox on the Hartford turnpike.  Our conversation turn'd principally on the professions, and particularly on oratory.  We agreed to attend next term as much as convenient to the business of extemporaneous speaking, and that we would criticise on each other, fully, candidly, and without reserve; both of us being fully in the determination of improving that exercise if possible.  I also made the proposition of rooming together next term, he did not fully agree to it, on account of having engaged to room with another person who is to be here next year; if that engagement should fail we will probably room together.23 T.] Review'd Flint's surveying at two lessons.  Read in Life of Burke.24 W.] Forenoon recited in class the first vol. of Morse's Univ. Geography.  Afternoon read some in Ovid's Art of Love, translated by Dryden.  Even'g attended society Lin.25 T.] Afternoon lesson on the 2nd Vol. of Morse's Geography.26 F.] Morning recited as usual in Tully.  The other two reviewing the two vols. of Webber.  This day, by chance obtained the late publication of Caustic, entitled 'Democracy unveil'd'.- Read it through and I do not hesitate to say that as a work of merit I think it inferior to the 'Terrible Tractoration.'  I think it inferior in that fine and sprightly poetic wit which is so prevalent in his first production.  'Tis true this is very good, it excels when compared with the doggrel works of other poets, but I presume when laid before the reviewers they will make greater objections to it than to 'Tractoration.'  The work is divided into Six Cantos, to which are given these names, 1st The Tocain, 2nd Illuminim, 3rd Mobocracy, 4th Jeffersoniad, 5th The Gibbet of Satire, 6th The Monition.  The Jeffersoniad has a good share of wit, as also of fine fancy and Satire; the Gibbet of Satire, is very severe and exceedingly well managed.  These are the two best Cantos of the work, and had the whole been conducted with as much spirit as these I should think the poem even superior to Tractoration.	Another reason I have for supposing this work less likely to meet a warm reception than the former, is that it has little to do with science.  It is wholly conversant in American politics, therefore cannot be well understood or eagerly read in any other country.  Moreover, it will only be warm federalists even in our own country who will greatly celebrate it.27 S.] Borrowed and read the celebrated Baviad & Meviad of Gifford.  The object of these poems is to correct the growing corruption of the English taste, and satyrize certain poetasters which made their appearance, in an unequalled strain of bombast, about the times of the French revolution.  The chief of these was a certain person under the signature of Della Crusca, who wrote a poem called the 'Wreath of Liberty' in favor of French politics.	This work appears to have been in some measure a model for Caustic, in his 'Terrible Tractoration.'	This afternoon wrote a political song entitled Carmen natale, a satire on one of our class who some mornings ago in a composition of his made a public avowal of Federalism and cast off with disdain the character of Democrat, which had by some been given him.28 Sunday] Attended meeting in the Chapel.- aftenroon and evening read in the Greek Testament.29 M.] Beginning of EXAMINATION.  Forenoon Seniors were examined in the languages, I attended.-afternoon went sailing with Cox, Fowler, Chandler, J. Strong, J.W. Strong & Bull.  Went across the harbor to Morris' - about 3 miles - had to beat down.  ran aground twice, we were in a very small sail boat.  Cox helmsman, and J. Strong to hand the sails: we arrived 1/2 past 4, took a cut of ham and eggs.- set out 1/4 before six and landed at the wharf about sunset.  Bill 47 cents p.piece.30 T.] Attended all day at the senior's examination.  Settled all accounts with Fowler.1805 May1 W.] Eight o'clock our examination began.  We were first examined in Greek testament, then in Horace, which took us till noon.  Afternoon in Priestley, English grammar, & Geography.  Spent the evening at Mrs. Baldwin's.  Obtain'd permission of the Dr. to go home as soon as the examination is over.2 T.] Eight began Arithmetic in Webber.  Finish'd the exmaintion about noon.  Afternoon engaged a passage to N. York with Captn. Buddington.  Set out after supper to go on board.  Passengers among others, Canf'd. of my class, Houston of the Senior with his mother and sister.	Went to bed about 11 o'clock the tide not yet high enough to get off.3 F.] About 1 in the morning the vessel got off and came into the Sound a little before day break, when a brisk wind sprang up from the East.  I rose about sunrise, when the captain told me we were about 20 miles from N. Haven, the wind was very fair, and pretty bris: we sailed at the rate of 8 nots.  At 1/2 past 9 we were down to the light house.  We pass'd Hellgate between 12 & 1.  Saw a sloop wrecked on Bogsback.  Arrived in N.Y. about 2.  Passage $4.	Call'd at Captn. Green's & Doctr. Mitchel's in the course of the afternoon.  Staid at Lovell's all night.4 S.] In the morning rec'd of Mr. Lovell the rem. on his note, viz. $40. together with 3.30 cents Interest.  Set out from Mr. Lovell's at 9 for Morris, by way of Eliz'th.town.  In Broad Way met Mr. N. Bull, and Wm. Whelpley who was then on his way to Massachusetts.  Concluded not to go to Morris today;- Went with Wm. to Mr. Keyes' where we dined.	Aftn. Whelpley and I went to the Museum, saw the celebrated invisible Lady.  Spent the most of the afternoon and evening in conversation with Whelpley on various subjects.  Was informed by him that Fitch is in Sandersville in Georgia; that he has clear'd about $2000 dollars since he has been in the practice of the law, which is not over 10 months.  Lodged with Whelpley at Baker's in Front St.5 Sunday] Rose 1/2 past 8.  Breakfasted at Baker's.  In the forenoon went with Whelpley to St. Paul's church.  We both dined at Mr. Lovell's.  Aftn. we went to hear Foster the Universalist, in Rose St.  Spent the time after meeting till evening with Whelpley at Baker's.  Even'g. Whelpley, E. Potter and myself went to &c, &c,---Saw &c, &c ---Ret'd. about 1/2 past 9 and ledged at Baker's.6 M.] Went and breakfasted at Mr. Lovell's.  After break. went with Whelpley and got my profile taken by Mrs. Ben Ale - gave 2/.  Went to Mrs. Akerley's call'd as we ret'd. to see the steam engine.- dined at Mrs. Dodge's.	Spent afternoon with Whelpley in various places.  We both took tea at Mrs. Dodge's, nobody but Peggy at home.  From there we went to Lovell's, and Ellis went with us to the play.  We saw 'The Belle's Stratagem' & 'The generous Farmers',- the latter was written by Mrs. Melmouth, the play this evening being her benefit.  Lodg'd again at Baker's.7 T.] Came to breakfast at Mr. Lovell's.  Spent the most of the forenoon with Whelpley.  Parted with him about noon, at Mrs. Smith's Old Slip.  2 o'clock, met for Morris in a chair with J. P. Losey who offered me a ride.  Arrived at Newark 1/2 past 4 where we dined.  Called at Chatham and reached Morris 1/2 past 9.  Staid all nigth at Mr. Canfield's.8 W.] Spent the most of the forenoon in visiting.  Went with Mr. Wood to Mr. Meeker's to dinner.  Ret'd. 2 o'clock.  Spent the afternoon and night at Mr. Whelpley's.9 T.] Forenoon spent in calculating the content of our place according to the survey of B. [illegible].  In the aftn. went to Walker's Esty's & D. Pierson's.  At 4 went to Mr. Meeker's and staid all night.10 F.] After breakfast came to town and spent the forenoon on the Green.  Afternoon went to the Academy and heard the Horace & Virgil classes.  Stept in at Mr. Russell's,- he offered me his horse and chair together with Eliza to go to Maj. Kinney's.  We went,- found there Miss Kinney, Miss Delaplaine & Miss Esty.  I had a very pleasant afternoon with the 4 ladies.  Ret'd. at dark.  Staid at Mr. Whelpley's.11 S.] Came in the morning to Mr. Meeker's in order to go with him to Turkey.  Assisted him in sowing some grass seed.  We set out after dinner;- arrived at Doct. Elmer's before sunset.  Went to J. Crane's in the evening.[The following 5 paragraphs are handwritten:]       Daniel Mulford - the author of this diary - was the son of Jonathan Mulford Sr. and Deborah Ludlow-       Deborah Ludlow was daughter of Jeremy Ludlow, whose only brother was Col. Cornelius Ludlow, b. 1728 d. 1813 - to whom there are references in the diary.	Daniel's father Jonathan had a brother Cornelius, b. 1757 d. 1823 whose daughter Sally m. Stephen Day for his first wife - She died 1800 at the birth of her first child - so that Stephen was a widower when Danl. refers to him from 1801 to 1804.	Jonathan & Deborah Mulford had eight children, four of whom d. in childhood, and only Elizabeth who m. John Crane had any children.   She had twelve.  All these people were born & died in or near New Providence which was then called Turkey.	Daniel died Oct 26 1811 of tuberculosis.12 Sunday] Staid there all day.  Read some in Burke's India speech which I bor'd. of D. Esty.  Saw also a work of Fletcher.13 M.] Went in the morning and borrowed Mr. Littell's chain and compass.  Measured two lines on that part of my land which lies North of the road.  Calculated the piece and find that it contains not quite 12 acres.  For this piece I ask $500.	Aftn. went to Turkey.  Ret'd. 4 o'clock and went to the raising of Jos. Crane's house.  There talked with I. Beedell & S. Bailey about my land.  They both want the North side of the road.  Bailey offered the price, I could not take it because Beedell had been promised it if he would give it.  Beedell thot. the price too high but wanted very much to get the place.  Mr. Schureman to whom Mr. Meeker has bargained the whole, for $1250, I have not yet seen.	D. Valentine spent the evening at J. Crane's with me.14 T.] In the morning read some in Burke's India speech.  Aftn. breakfast went again to Mr. Littell's.  In conversation with him on selling my property, he express'd some desire that Mr. Beedell should possess it on account of his usefulness in the place.  He enquired the price I had set.  I told him that Mr. Meeker asked Mr. Schureman 1250 Dolls.  He wanted to know if I would not take less.  I answered that I should not till I had seen Mr. Schureman.  After some further conversation on Mr. Beedell's staying in the neighborhood, he told me that he was going to say something that would be unexpected to me.  I manifested a willingness to hear it.  I will take your property, says he, and give you your price, now you're fast.  I made answer that I could not say he should have it, because I did not know how far Mr. Meeker had gone in bargaining with Mr. Schureman, and I was under obligations, on the principles of good faith to fulfil whatever contract Mr. Meeker had made, since I had written to him from New Haven to that effect.  I however promised to see Mr. Littell again before I sold it.	Went to Mr. Jones' - Uncle Cornelius; J. Beedell's and home.  Beedell still expresses dissatisfaction with the price but wants the place.  I promised that if I sold the North side without the rest, he should have it before any other person, provided he would come up to the price; but if I concluded to sell the whole Mr. Schureman had the refusal.15 W.] A rainy day.  Mr. Schureman not yet arrived.  I finished reading Burke's speech.  Afternoon went to S. Beedell's where conversation took place similar, in gen'l. to what had been said before.  He had by this time heard (he pretended) from Mr. Littell and understood Mr. Littell's object in wishing to buy, which was to let him have what he wanted and wait longer for the pay, than I would.  He appeared very anxious to have the place, but still thought my price too high.16 T.] Mr. Schureman not yet arrived.  I concluded to go to Morristown and return on next Monday, when Mr. Schureman would probably be arrived.  I set out from J. Crane's soon after breakfast, came to Turkey where I saw Wm. Valentine my cousin who has been 5 years in the upper part of York state and is now on his way from there to Ohio.  His brother Dan'l. goes with him.  Arrived at Mr. Meeker's 1/2 past 1.  Spent the afternoon at Mr. Whelpley's and evening at Tim. Lewis' in company with H. Ford (late from Virginia) Esty, Mills, &c.  Esty lodged with me at Mr. Whelpley's.17 F.] Spent the forenoon at Mr. Whelpley's playing on Chas. Russell's fiddle, and reading in Edward's essay on Gods last end in the creation of the World.  Afternoon Henry Ford came upon the green from Mr. Mills' where he had staid all night.  Esty and myself went home with him;- staid till after sunset.  When ret'd. to town we call'd at Russell's and rec'd. farther information from Fitch.  Mr. Russell was with him 6 weeks last winter.  Staid all night with Esty.18 S.] Spent the forenoon at Mr. Whelpley's and about the Green.  After dinner went with Chas. to his office, where he gave me a blank deed and mortgage.  We then went to Mrs. D. Hart's.  Heard by Stage that h. P. Russel was married last Sunday evening to Miss Boor of Connecticut.  Went to Mr. Russell's where we took tea.  After tea Mills came there, with whom, Miss Russel & Mrs. Haskins I went a walking on the mountain.  At dusk we ret'd. and went to Danl. Pierson's and spent the evening at playing whist.  I lodged with S. Johnson, with whom multa confabielatus sum de puellis, et de Eumorphe particulariter et Gallo.19 Sunday] Rose 8 o'clock and went to Mr. Meeker's to breakfast.  Forenoon read Pope's essay on man and his Messiah.  After dinner talked with Mr. Wood concerning Levi.  Mr. Wood told me that Levi was not quite as pleasant and polite in his manner of addressing people as he could wish,- that he had not however lately exhibited much ill temper, and he believed his deficiency in politeness was not ill disposition but a mere unpolished method of expression.  He said he did not yet know much about goods, but had a good knowledge of accounts.  That on the whole Levi suited him very well, and it was probable, if he continued his usual good conduct, and rem'd. with him till he was 21, that he should assist him to get into business.	After meeting came to town and conversed with Levi considerably on the subject of remaining with Canf'd. & Wood.  He expressed a great deal of satisfaction in living there,- gave me information on several acts of Mr. Wood's generosity which I was not before acquainted with,- found no fault with his situation except that Mr. Canf'd. sometimes gave requests and commands which he thot. needless and improper.  I urged to Levi the necessity, and explained to him his own interest in obeying implicitly all Mr. Canfield's orders, whether he saw their use or not.	Spent the evening at Mr. Esty's.  Lodged at Mr. Whelpley's.20 M.] Set out after breakfast, on Mr. Whelpley's horse for Turkey, where I arrived about 11 - found Mr. Schureman at the Doct're. waiting for me.  Mr. Schureman agreed to the terms of our bargain as Mr. Meeker had stated.  I observed to Mr. Schureman that I had given my word to see Mr. Littell before I concluded a bargain with any one.  Accordingly I came up to Mr. Isaac Beedell's - found him, as usual, wishing to have the place but unwilling to give the price.  I went up to Littell's - asked him what he had thot. on the subject & what he had farther to say.  He answered that he had nothing to say,- he considered that when a person offered any thing for sale and another came up to his terms, on the principles of good faith, the bargain was made.  I, thinking he had reference to Mr. Schureman's agreement with Mr. Meeker, thanked him for his candor, and was about to return.  But I soon perceived that he considered himself the purchaser.  He said that I could not get clear from him without breaking my word.  That I had property offering for sale, that he had come to my price, and of course that was the bargain,- on the principles of good faith was made.  I asked if he did not recollect my telling him when he made the offer, that the land was probably engaged to Mr. Schureman, if I concluded to sell the whole.  He answered that 'twas true I told him so, but he thot. at the time that was a quibble of mine in order to avoid bargaining with him.  He next accused me of unfair dealing, in offering a piece of property for sale, which was already engaged.  I then recalled to his memory that I never had offered to him either the whole or a part,- that I had indeed offered the North side to others, because if I chose to sell that separate I was under no obligations to Mr. Schureman, but that what led to his offers, was his own questions.  He asked me if I expected to sell.  I answered yes.  He asked my price I told him what Mr. Schureman had agreed to give if I would sell the whole.  That he then told me he would say something unexpected to me (and which proved to be truly so, for I had never thot. of his buying it) and accordingly offered me the same price, adding that then I was fast.  He owned that I did not particularly offer him the land, but said it was for sale generally, that he had come up to the price, and of course I must let him have it or be guilty of unfair dealing.  We entered into a warm debate.  He said he had never thot. of buying it till the day he made me the offer, when finding how much I was like to get for it, rather than Mr. Beedell should not be able to purchase it, he then formed a plan to assist him.  That his plan was this - that he was agoing to buy the whole, let Isaac have the North side for 575 Dolls. and keep the rest himself, that these were the calculations he made at that time, but that the policy of bargaining did not require that they should be then made known to me.  As soon as I perceived that it was the effect of his plan that had hindered Isaac from giving $500 for the North side, and that he had completely baffled me in getting that sum, which S. Bailey once offered & I refused because I felt under prior obligations to Isaac, feeling under no obligations to him for his kindness, I left him to pursue his plans at his leisure, and came down to Beedell's.  I made known to Beedell that Mr. Littell and I had not bargain'd.  I told him a good part of our conversation.  He was very sorry, and was still anxious to possess the place.  Offered me more than Mr. Schureman was to give, I refused it, and told him I could now do no more for him than this,- if Mr. Schureman was willing to give up the bargain, I would let him have it, at the same price.  I promised to ask Mr. Schureman to do this, but told Isaac he must not be disappointed if I made writings before he saw me again.	I returned to Doct. Elmer's - made the proposition to Mr. Schureman.  He answered that he should be willing to oblige Mr. Beedell in any reasonable manner, but he could not drop the bargain.  Accordingly, we then went to making the writings.  I stayed all night at the Doctor's.21 T.] After breakfast we signed the writings and acknowledged them before Judge Clark who attended at the Doctr's.  I gave him a warrantee deed; he gave me three bonds 1 for $415,. due 20th May 1805,- one for $417 due 20th May 1807 and one for $417 due May 20th 1808, with interest on the whole from April 1st 1805; together with the mortgage on the whole of the land executed by himself and wife.	At 11 o'clock came to John Cranes where I found that they were satisfied with what I had done.  John moreover informed me that Littell had been some time in the plan of buying my land; that he had applied to him some weeks before my arrival from N.Eng'd. to come into the scheme, and assist in keeping Beedell in the neighborhood.  When I reflected that Littell had told me that the first of his scheme took place at the time we were talking about a bargain, and that last fall when I was about selling to Jon. Ludlow, he told him no man could afford to give more than $1000 for the property; I felt very well satisfied to see his prospect of speculation interrupted.	Set out at 3 o'clock for Morristown,- Was detain'd at Turkey by rain, lodged at the Doctor's.22 W.] Rose at sunrise.  Peter Valentine and myself came to Mr. Meeker's before breakfast.  I came on to town and spent the forenoon principally in writing.  At noon went to Doctr. Campfield's and took from the Library Smith's Wealth of Nations on Chas. Rusell's account.  Read in it in the afternoon.  Spent the evening at Israel Canf'd. in company with Mrs. Maskins, Miss Clara Pierson & Mr. Chas. Russell.  Lodged at Whelpley's.23 T.] Came, after break'st. to Mr. Meeker's.  Was somewhat unwell today with a violent cold in my head.  Read some in Smith,- read some in the Vicar of Wakefield (by Goldsmith) - Lodged at Mr. Meeker's.24 F.] Forenoon rather better;- read in Smith, some in Vicar of Wakefield.  Miss Pierson came to Mr. Meeker's on a visit about 10 o'clock.  Afternoon Mr. Meeker was about going to Longhill to take his mare to Boylse horse.  I offered to go.  Set out 1/2 past 2 and ret'd. 1/2 past 6, a distance of 9 miles from Morris.  At dusk went to town with Clara.  Went and settled with Mr. Walker.  Mr. Ball called on Mr. Whelpley and came home (1/2 past 8) with Mr. Wood.25 S.] Forenoon studied Smith's wealth of Nations; finished reading the first volume.  Afternoon came to town.  Bout. me an 18 inch trunk of Mr. D. Mills.  Was introduced to Miss Jermain of Sagharbour.  Spent some time at Mr. Whelpley's  Evening at Esty's and Mr. Coe's.  Lodg'd at Whelpley's.26 Sunday] Attending meeting both morning and afternoon.  Mr. Whelpley preached, Mr. Richards being at Philadelphia.  Miss P. Denman was at meeting.  Immediately after service I went to Mr. Meeker's where Miss D. had gone with Mrs. Meeker.  Staid till after tea, then Miss & I came on foot to Mr. Coe's where were Miss Wade, Mr. Wheeler and two Mr. Wades, the rem'r. of Miss Denman's party.  They set out for home about sunset.  Evening I came with D. Esty to see Miss M. Leddel if yet in town.  We met Miss Russel, Miss Jermain & Mr. Denham, turn'd and walk'd with them.  Esty went to Mr. Whelpley's.  I walked with Miss Jermain two or three times across the Green, then down Quality St, up Elm St., and then to Mr. Russell's. This the 2nd time I had ever seen her.  She appear'd very loquacious, spoke with considerable sense on some things, and appear'd quite find of walking slow.  We arrived at Mr. Russell's some time after D. & Eliza,- we all sat down on the sofar, where we staid till 1/2 past 9 in the dark.  --&c, &c, &c,--Went and lodged with Esty.27 M.] Rose and came to the green a little after sunrise.  Forenoon read Pope's January & May,- his temple of fame &c.  Spent some time at Russell's with E. & Rebecca.  After dinner went to the Academy, heard the testament, Horace & Virgil classes.  Again some minutes over at Russell's.  After school went to Mr. Meeker's,- after tea took my leave of them and ret'd. to town.  Evening attended a meeting of the young gentlemen at Freeman's making arrangements for the fourth of July.  Lodged with Esty.28 T.] At 6 o'clock S. Johnson & I set out for N.York in his chair.  We call'd at Spring about an hour, saw P. & F.  Arrived at Newark about 11.  I went to see my aunt Esther Ball who now lives in Broad St. nearly opposite Roff's tavern.  We arrived in N.York after 2.  Did some business with Loyd & Ingland, for Mr. Wood, also bou't. some muslin for Mrs. Whelpley.  Evening went with Robt. Russell & Johnson to Mr. Green's in Hudson St. - ret'd. about 9 to Muir's and play'd a game or two of whist.  Lodg'd with Johnson at Muir's.29 W.] Breakfasted at Mr. Lovell's.  At 9 set out in the Boston Mail, for N. Haven.  We called first at Harlaem bridge, then at East Chester.  Arrived at Rye about noon.  Came on to Stamford to dinner.  Next stage at Norwalk where we arrived about 6 o'clock.  Passed Fairfield at 8 and reach'd Stratford 1/2 past 9.  Here we supped, and about 10 set out again for N.H. where wee arrived after 12.  Expense through almost $7.  Lodged at Nichol's.  Passengers there students and Mr. Wm. Hillhouse, beside some for short distances.30 T.] Morning came to College where I soon heard that Boyle & Cooper both Juniors have been fighting, and Boyle stands bound for his appearance at court in two sums, one $80, the other $200.  Spent the most of the day in arranging things and setting my room in order.  Recited in the aftn. 3 Sections in last book of Tully.31 F.] Attended to the recitations which were all in Tully.  3 Sections at a lesson.  At noon took from the Brothers' library the first Vol. of Burke's works, read some in his treatise on the sublime and beautiful.  Wrote a letter to Mr. J. Goodyear to call & see me.1805 June1 S.] Made two recitations in Tully de oratore.  Afternoon read Burke's 2nd part of his Sub. & Beautiful.2 Sunday] Attended meeting.  Read the 3rd book of Tully in translation.3 M.] Began Enfield where we left off last term viz., in Optics at Reflection.  Recited Tully in the morning, Enfield the other two times.  Read Burke's 3rd part.4 T.] Recited as usual.  Read Burke's 4th part, took notes of the treatise as I read it.  Boyle paid me $3 which he borr'd. last winter.  To-day my room-mate returned.5 W.] Made the usual recitations.  Finished Burke's treatise on the Sub. & Beau.  Wrote a letter to Mr. T. Fitch.- sent it p.mail.  Bout. of St. Hughs & Co. a thin coat.6 T.] Attended to the business of the class.7 F.] Made the usual recitations.  Took from the library 1st Volume of Johnson's Works.8 S.] Made the recitations.  Began to write a dispute for next week.  Today Boyle red'd. a dismission on account of his conduct with Cooper,- it is said to be an honorable one and such as will admit him into some other College.9 Sunday] In the morning borr'd. of Jno. Cunningham, 1st Vol. of Milton's works.  During the day read the 2 first books of the Paradise lost, and took some extracts from them.  Attended meeting.10 M.] Finished writing my dispute for Wednesday.  Went to the court then in session the high court of Errors where the Governor presides.  Heard Roger Griswold plead.  Gov. Trumbull is a small man, has very good, sharp eyes, but I presume is not a man of first rate talents.11 T.] Made the usual recitations.12 W.] Made the recitations.  Afternoon went with 5 others, beyond East Rock, after strawberries,- found very few - returned by way of the Gun factory - called to see the works.13 T.] Made the recitations.  It having been yesterday moved, in class, that we abolish the study of Spherics, and committee having been sent to the tutors on the business - this report was today made to the class:- that we either study Spherics, or go again at Homer and get 60 lines for a lesson.  A majority of the Class preferred Spherics.	Took from the Libraries 1 vol. of Johnson's Works, and Lyttleton's Letters.14 F.] Those of the class who voted for spherics, recited in Dialing, at 11, to Mr. Kingsley: the rest, rec'd. in Homer to Mr. Hoadley.- evening attended Rhetorical Society.15 S.] Recited-- Wrote letters to Levi, D. Esty & E. Potter.16 Sunday] Attended meeting.  Read and took notes in Milton, through the 5th Book.17 M.	} Attended to the business of the class.  Went to the court of Error's now in session, where I heard Nath'l. Smith of Hartford, Ingersol & Edwards, speak on the question of whether a woman could make a will and dispose of her property during the life of her husband.  It was decided in the negative.18 T.	}19 W.] Recited in Spherics.  At 5 o'clock went to Mr. Hugh's to tea.  I was never at his house before.  He has a handsome house & garden but a d--d homely wife.20 T.] Recited the lesson's.  - Read in Johnson's life of Savage.  Rec'd. a letter from Wm. Whelpley.21 F.] Attended the city court to hear Boyle's trial.  It was put off till tomorrow.22 S.] Went again to Court.  The trial was repealed to the County court of next Dec'r.  Afternoon, wrote some in a composition for next Tuesday, read in Johnson.23 Sunday] Attended meeting.  Wrote a letter to Betsey Crane.  Read Addison & Prior in Johnson's lives.  Evening went with Ely & Smith (freshman) to see the Miss Darlings - they not at home.24 M.	} Attended to the usual business.  Tues. read a satyrical composition before the class which offended several.  Wrote on the 28th to Wm. Whelpley, stating that in order to enter Junr. this fall he had better study 4 books of Euclid - Algebra, Conic Sec's. and perhaps trigonometry.  Would hereafter inform him if he must study Trig'y.25 T.	}26 W.	}27 T.	}28 F.	}29 S.	}30 Sunday] Attended meeting.  Read in Milton and took notes, to the 9th Book.  Spent the evening at Mr. Hughes'.  Was treated with cherries &c.1805 July1 M.] Made the usual recitations.  In spherics, we are now to Trig'y. - In Enfield, to Eclipses of the Sun,- In Natel, through the 1st Book.2 T.] Made the recitations.  Borrowed of Dunwoody, a sophomore, Maven's his'y. of England and began to read it.3 W.] Attended to the usual business.  Read in Hist. of England to the conquest.4 T.] INDEPENDENCE>  Recited all day.  Celebration of the day was prohibited.  About 20 of us however collected in Conner's room immediately after dinner, drank wine and sung songs till 9, when we were dispersed by one of the tutors (Hoadley).5 F.] To-day the faculty are in session respecting the scrape of yesterday.6 S.] Wrote a letter to Mr. Sam'l. Whelpley - Read in Maver.  Went bathing.7 Sunday] Went to meeting.  Finished reading Milton.  read some in a Picture of London.8 M.] Attended to the studies.  At night was admitted, with 18 more of our class, into the [Phi Beta Kappa] Society.  To-day read the reign of Edward III, the trans. of [illegible].9 T.] In Spherics finished oblique trigonometry, on Astronomy, to the causes of celestial motion.  In Vatell, 13th chap. II Book.  Spent the evening walking with the Lionesses, at Colum. garden, saw the invisible Lady.  Bill $1.75.10 W.] Forenoon rec'd. a letter from Esty.  Afternoon read in the reign of Henry the II the account of the conduct of Joan D' Arc in freeing the city of Orleans from the siege of the English.  Evening attended the L. Society.  Recesserunt Seniores.11 T.] Attended to the business of the class.  Wrote in dispute for next Monday.12 F.] Wrote a letter by Smith to Cox at Litchf'd.  Recited first lesson in Spherical Astronomy.13 S.] Assisted to examine the books in Linonian Library - Cox returned.  Did very little in the evening.14 Sunday] Attended meeting.  Read the reigns of Richard II & Henry VII.  Spent the evening with Mitchel, walking.15 M.] This morning after recitation Mr. Goodyear call'd on me.  He agreed to give a Note for the balance due Messr. Canf'd. & Wood, but wished me first to write to Mr. Wood requesting an abatement of the Interest.  He promised to call again in a few weeks and give the note.  I wrote at noon to Mr. Wood.	11 o'clock disputed the question whether the Deity's existence can be proved from the light of Nature?  Wrote on the negative.  After'n. recited in Lunai irregul.16 T.] Senior's Examination - did not recited except in Vatel.  Rec'd. a letter from Levi, stating that Elias Crane is not like to live.  Read the reign of Henry VIII, and part of the Tragedy of that name.  Spent the evening with Mr. Beach sen. in company with Miss Brown at her house.17 W.] Wrote a letter to Betsey Crane.  Senr's. exams. continued!  At noon rec'd. a letter from H. P. Russell at Stratford.  To-day a person died near the church of the Yellow Fever, and was buried in 2 hours after he died.  Evening attended the Lin. Society.18 T.] After breakfast set out with Havens (jun. class) for Stratford.- reached there near 11 - Took dinner at Mrs. Poor's in company with Henry & Eliza Russell.  Spent the time in conversation walking about the town, playing on the Flute & Guirtar (the first Guittar I ever saw).  We stayed to Tea, and 1/4 past 5 set out for New Haven which was reached 8 o'clock.  Expenses $1.43.  Stratford is nearly as large as Newark in Jersey - the ground is level - houses are generally small and old, the town is not so handsome as I expected - looks desolate compared with Newark.  H. & E. talk of coming to N. Haven Saturday.19 F.] Recited.-- a committee was appointed from our class (Wilkinson, Cox, Mosely & Mulf'd.) to petition the tutors that theyw ill not oblige us to study any more afternoons this term.- hope they will not succeed.20 S.] Went on the committee - no success.  At noon drew for rooms, out of 32 num. drew No. 15.  At 4 o'clock Cox was admitted into the [Phi Beta Kappa], having been absent when the rest were admitted.  Saw nothing of H. & E. Russell.21 Sunday] Attended meeting.  Read the last two books of Milton.  Read some in the reign of Queen Elizabeth.22 M.] Attended to the business of the class.  Read the reign of James I Rec'd. another letter from H. P. Russell, stating that he could not come to N. Haven before he returned which will be tomorrow.  (Some rumors of the Yellow fever in town.  Putrid fever quite frequent.)23 T.] Attended to the business of Class.  After prayers Doctor gave us a consolatory address on the present state of the sickness in town; stating that when it became dangerous to us, he would dismiss college - and not before.  J'h. Townsend died today.24 W.] Attended business.  Read reign of Chas. 1st.  Attended Linn. Society.  This last sentence I wrote at noon, thinking it would certainly be fulfilled, as the society meets on Wednesday evenings, and I was well and intended to go.  But about 4 o'clock in the afternoon it began to be rumor'd that there were several new cases of the fever to day - that the Doctr. was alarmed and would dismiss College.  This report was soon confirmed by the tutors who had been in session with the Doctr. and the rest of the Faculty on the subject.  I agreed without hesitation that if we were dismissed I would go home with Jason Allen a class-mate who lived at Montville near New London.  After Prayers, the Doctor dismissed College as was expected.  He observed that from the best information he could obtain (and he had been very busy to obtain it with correctness) there was five or six new cases of the fever to-day - that he did not wish to detain the students in such a time, longer than they felt willing to stay, he therefore, gave liberty to all who wished it to retire.  That if the fever should subside in a short time he should notify them to return.  If they received no information before the usual time of Commencement, they would not be expected back till after the usual vacation - after that they must return, if the town is healthy, without a particular notification from him.	After prayers went to work and packed up our things for our Journey early in the morning.25 T.] At 1/2 past 3 in the mornign nine of us, viz. Haven, Peck, Channing, Nichol, Richards, Huntington, H. Strong, Allen & myself, set out in Nichol's stage for N.London.  We gave 5 Dolls. each for our passage.  The first town we passed was East Haven.  East Haven is a small country place, contains one meeting house, and several dwelling houses near;- here we stopped and took a drink of bitters.  We next proceeded to Branford, which is also a country place with one meeting house, the land is quite rough.  We breakfasted at Guilford, which is about 16 miles from N.Haven.	I was pleased with the appearance of Guilford from its similarity to Morristown.  In this town there is a public square about the size of Morris Green, built on all sides but the south and not fenced.  On the square are a Presbyterian meeting house with two galleries (the first of the kind I ever saw) a Baptist meeting house and an Academy to the south of the public square, immediately joining in the burying ground of the Episcopalians, and in this ground stands their Church, quite small, without a steeple.  The town is much larger than Morristown, for several streets that lead from the public square are thickly inhabited for some distance.  I should suppose it contains 150 houses.	We set out from Guilford at 9 and soon passed East Guilford a very pleasant little village, containing one church.  We next passed through Killingworth, a village of 50 or 60 houses, principally of wood, old & incommodious.  The land is not very smooth nor is the town by any means pleasant to look upon.	After leaving Killingworth we crossed a river not more than 4 rods wide where three vessels of considerable size (apparently Brigs) were building, and soon came to Poohaug a parish in Say Brook township.  This place is extremely rough.  Say Brook the next town is pleasant & handsome: the Ground is level, houses new and business appears brisk.  Here is the residence of Genl. Hart the Democratic candidate for Gov. of the state.  Here is a noble prospect of the Conn. River & the Sound.  The town contains one meeting house and perhaps 80 handsome dwelling houses, 35 miles from N. Haven & 18 from N.London.	Two miles beyond this we crossed Connecticut River, at a ferry of about 1/2 a mile and went as far as Lyme to dinner, where we arrived 1/2 past 12.  Lyme is a mile from the River, is not so large and not so handsome as Say Brook.  After dinner, about 2 o'clock, we continued our route, and soon saw, off at the right hand near the sea shore, the seats of Roger & Mathew Griswold.  We reached Rope Ferry about 4 o'clock.  This is a curious place.  An arm of the sound about a mile wide runs up into the country several miles.  By eddies or some such cause a bar of sand has made almost across it, so high as never to be overflowed.  The channel is not more than eight rods wide.  This used to be ferried in scows, by a rope, which gave it the name of Rope Ferry.  A bridge has lately been built across it.  Four miles from this & at 1/2 past 5 we reached N. London.	New London city contains a Presbyterian, Episcopalian & Baptist church, a court house and an Academy.  There are between 3 & 4 hundred dwelling houses very compact.  The houses are many of them handsome & large, the streets narrow, uncommonly crooked & irregular.  The ground is very high: the shore is bold and the ground ascends as you recede from the water so that at the distance of a mile you are on a hill of considerable height.  The harbour is excellent, the largest ships ride in safety.  From this port some business is done to India & considerable to Europe.	From N. London Mr. Allen & myself had 8 miles to go.  We got into a hack with some of our companions who were going to Norwich, and rode 3 miles; the rest of the distance we footed, and arrived at Mr. Allen's in Montville about 9 o'clock, pretty well tired: having travell'd to-day about 62 miles.	On the Road I noticed several peculiarities,	1st The Connecticut manner of building.  Almost universally through the country the houses are two stories high, with a front of two rooms.  The Chimney, for they have one, is in the middle of the house, the fire places built back to back.  The front door opens immediately against the chimney, and you turn to the right and left thro' doors into the rooms.  Sometimes where the house is large there is a crooked stair-case leading up from the front door, and winding up by the side of the chimney - in others as you pass, if the front door is open, you will see hung up against the chimney a saddle, a potpye & a pillion.	2ndly Connecticut economy.  A great part of the country through which I have passed quite from N. York to N. London is rocky.  And so valuable is the smooth land where the inhabitants are so numerous, that they build their churches on ledges of rocks, which are good for nothing else.  Whether this practice has arisen from their piety which seeks to make their churches conspicuous by being placed high I do not pretend to determine.  but I think it an economical plan; for what ever land is so poor & rough that it is good for nothing to man, still answers a very good purpose by being devoted to the gods.  The churches founded on rocks which I have noticed, are as you go from N. York to N. London, Greenwich, Horseneck, Stamford, Milford, Branford, Killingworth, Pochaug, Lyme & N. London.	3rd The form of their steeples, which is almost uniform.  They raise them square about 15 feet above the ridge of the house; in this space is the clock.  Four posts run up about 8 feet higher, at the bottom of which hangs the bell; and then they top them up with a slim concave spine.  The height from the ground is usually from 70 to 90 feet.	Besides these things, the country being rough and timber scarce, they build a great deal of stone fence.  They mow with short sithes & long sneaths.  The sneaths are about as crooked as our cradle sneaths, they have two nebs, the first about 2-1/2 feet from the heal of the syther, the 2nd about 4 feet and sneath reaches 12 or 14 inches beyond this so that when they whet, the sythe is almost as high as their head.  The meadows are in many places so rough they can scarce ever get a full stroke and to see a number of mowers they look as though they were mowing briars among stumps.  They usually stack their hay in the meadow and fodder it on the ground, this makes manure scarce, and to supply this, those who live near the sound, manure their corn ground with what they call white fish, a kind of wifh which they catch in abundance, which make the corn grow very rapidly, and send a most abominable stink for a half a mile round the corn field all summer.26 F.] Rose late - took a view of Mr. Allen's farm the place is about as rough as Mendham or Smalley town.  Wrote a letter to Levi informing him where I am and requesting Mr. Wood to send me $20.  Afternoon went out and raked hay.  A shower in the evening.  Began to read Roderic Random a novel by Smollet.27 S.] Spent the forenoon in writing the observation I have made since leaving N. Haven.  Afternoon read Roderic Random, and raked hay.  Wrote to Wm. Whelpley.28 Sunday] At ten O'clock Allen & I set out for meeting on foot.  We went about 2 miles.  The meeting house was small & very old.  The Priest's name is Alden - is not a good preacher, confines himself closely to his notes, and his observations are old & general.  French, the music writer, who has published a collection of tunes, is chorister at this church, he is a very poor singer.  His voice is flat & very harsh, he accents the first & 3rd parts of the bar unreasonably hard, and whenever he strikes a note he makes a sound like that when you pull a splinter which is fast to a rail and let it spring back and jar.       At noon we went to a Doct. Jewet's about a mile from the meeting house.  There we saw a Miss Jewet (who looks something like Emorphe, tho' larger), and her brother George.  George has been a trip to sea as Midshipman, and tho' poorly dressed appears to be an active, smart fellow.  Miss Jewet is considerably accomplished.  We intend visiting them again.  We were then treated with some rum & water (the people here drink West India Rum principally - there is no cider spirit made) staid about an hour and returned.  As we came back we found about a dozen ladies, like as many old ewes, lolling by the side of the stone fence, under some apple trees, and dining very greedily on green apples.  We made as short a halt as Uncle Toby and Trim did when they came to Widow Wadman's lane, and after the humbling sermon we had in the forenoon heard, concluded to become lowly minded, and so sat down with the Ladies.  Some good little observations were made in the company but as I was a stranger and had taken my seat not in the thickest of the,, I bore very little part of the conversation.  We shortly all rose and proceeded to the meeting house where the parson had arrived before us, and was in prayer.  The text was in these words 'My yoke is easy and my burden is light', and sure never did man adapt his manner & matter better to the subject, for the yoke of what he had to say did not grapple my attention, nor did the burden of his sermon hang on me a moment after he had ended.       About 4 we were dismissed with a blessing, and had the fun of seeing the ladies old and young mount their pillions.  In this parish the country is particularly rough so that riding in carriages is not so pleasant as on horseback: and when these ladies ride behind, they universally use pillions.  These pillions are covered with broadcloth and tho' there are some to be found of every colour, that most frequent is blue.  The skin of the pillion hangs down below the horse's flank, and the edges are commonly curiously worked with various colours.  On the left side hangs a large stirrup, large enough for the lady to put in both her feet, but I believe the usual method is to let the stirrup come between the legs of the rider, so that she may put in first one foot then the other alternately, as best suits her ease & convenience.  How the pillions are fastened on I have not yet been able to discover.  I presume they must be fastened in some manner, else in so rough a country, the ladies would now and then capsize backwards, and shew their bare lightening rods.       The afternoon passed principally in conversation.            29 M.] Read Roderic Random till 4 in the afternoon, then raked hay till night.30 T.] Forenoon read Roderic.  About 3 in the afternoon went with Jason to see the parson of the parish, Mr. Alden.  He lived about 2 miles distant,-we went on foot- found him at work with a negro carrying hay.  His mother-in-law was very much concerned that we should come upon Mr. Alden in his dishabille.  The parson put on his gown and accompanied us into the house, where we saw his wife, a fine little chunk of a woman as I have this long time seen.  She is short, tolerable fleshy, her face rather of the bony, her chin prominent; but so much good nature in her eye, and complaisance in her whole look that I could not but wonder that so fine a woman should throw herself away upon a sluggish, fat priest.  When I looked at this woman I began to reflect that I had often seen the handsomest women, those best calculated to please the rake, united with clergymen; my thots. began to seek the cause why this should happen, and at length made this conclusion: that as the women are no doubt like Roderic Random - fonder of stroakings than skimm'd milk, they calculate in marrying Priests to have a husband always at hand, that they may call upon him to do the little chores of the family just when they wish.  Moreover a clergyman is apt to retain his constitution, is always delicate, and usually uxorious, these things I presume are sufficient to influence many ladies in their choice of a husband.	After Mr. Alden had found out that I was from Jersey he asked many questions.-such as these, Whether I was acquainted with such & such clergymen?  Where the clergy of new Jersey usually come from?  How clergy among us are supported? & whether they usually get a good support? among other important questions he asked if Morristown was not inhabited principally by dutch?	Mr. Alden keeps the Library of the parish, which consists of about 200 vols., we took out the 1st of Gordons Revolu'n. & 9th of Shakespeare and returned at dusk.31 W.]  In the forenoon read Hamlet.  Afternoon read some in Roderic, at 3 went with Capt. Allen (alias George, Jason's elder brother) & Jason, to the Thames River, about 4 miles distant, to bathe and catch oysters.  We went on horse-back, met Capt. Thompson, who married old Mr. Allen's daughter, on the road, he went with us.  We took but few oysters & arrived home after 9.1805 August1 T.]  Morning finished reading Roderic Random: I am much pleased with this Novel, think it well written, the Character of Strap is admirably supported throughout, perhaps for simplicity and friendly attachmnt to Roderic, it is drawn above nature, but it is all of a piece, the reader can almost see when he first becomes acquainted with Strap at school what he will do and what he will not do.  It seems to be a pity that he gets a wife who has lost her purity, but as he is acquainted with Miss Williams' conduct and still prefers her, nobody is to blame but himself.  There is the purest of humor in Strap's character - in the meeting of Roderic & his father in S. America the height of pathos, and some of the most exquisite touches of painting bestowed on Narcissa.	This novel is highly entertaining,- is useful in exposing the tricks practiced on novices in the world, and is moral in the effect of its actions.	Read in the forenoon Shakespeare's Romeo & Juliet.  Afternoon Jas. Allen & I went on a visit to Doct. Jewet's about 2-1/2 miles from Mr. Allen's.  We there found all the Miss Jewets, viz., Betsey, Sally, Nancy, Polly & Hariot, beside a Miss Porter of Hadley in Massachusetts.  When we arrived George was at work in the field.  The girls being something reserved, and the old lady present there was not much said or done during the afternoon.  After tea as we thot. of coming home it began to rain.  George came in, and persuaded us to stay all night.  I felt very willing and Allen was not averse to it, so we agreed to stay.  The evening went on more briskly.  George is a jovial fellow, though considerable of a sloven.  He had on a pair of tow trousers which he had worn in the rain making stone fence, and an old home-spun sailor jacket, in this dress he cut many capers.  I became better acquainted with the ladies as we became more lively, and we spent the evening in playing Whist, knitting and making cats-cradles.  We did not retire till near midnight.2 F.]  Allen & I rose to breakfast, about 1/2 past 7 - after breakfast we thot. of coming home but waited for the grass to dry as the rain had abated;--We went to reading the play of Cleone.  It soon began to rain again, we finished the play, and soon found it almost noon; of course we staid to dinner.  It now had ceased raining and we thot. of coming away, but hearing that the ladies were going to a lecture, at 3, we concluded to stay and attend them, as the meeting house was on our road and we felt ourselves somethat devout.  At 3, the weather being fair the ladies concluded to change lecture into a huckle-berry party, which pleased me very well; so 4 of them went with us to the field.  By this time I felt very well acquainted among them, and taking my Yankee Semanthe (Miss Betsey) we went on forward.  We found the huckle-berries plenty, and soon picked as many as we wanted.  After which Allen & myself feeling pretty caperish, & the girls as good as well, we had a pretty caperish time.	After throwing huckleberries about half an hour, Semanthe & I took our distance to fight a duel.  We sat on the ground about three feet apart, and fired single berries, she aimed at my head & I aimed at hear heart.  Several of my shots entered, at least they went beneath the handkerchief, but as they had a great depth to penetrate before they reached her vitals, they lodged without any damage, (Surgeon or not I would have liked the sport of extracting them)-and she with a stout heart and bold face, was willing to continue the firing as long as I pleased.  When I saw that balls in the breast did not affect her, I proposed the sword; but that she declined for the present, for perceiving mine to be of high temper, she was somewhat fearful that a thrust of it, would make a deeper wound than the balls; of which tho' nearly an hundred had lodged in her breast, they did not even discompose her countenance, (I presume one who can stand so many shots, would not in reality fear one push.)	We returned after sun-set, and were persuaded to stay to tea; after which George hid Allen's hat, and we concluded to take lodgings again at the Doctor's.	After playing a game of Picquet with George, and telling some stories, we retired after 10 o'clock.3 S.]  Rose before sun-rise and came home without seeing the ladies.  Wrote a letter to Betsey Crane.  Began to read Gordon's American revolution.  Afternoon Allen & I read, act by act alternately, the Tragedy of Othello, and was better pleased with it than with either of the others we had read.4 Sunday] Did not go to meeting in the forenoon because it was rainy.  Read in Gordon.  Afternoon we went; saw George Jewet, and agreed to go Wednesday to the River (Thames) on an Oyster party, with ladies.  After meeting read in Gordon almost thro' the 3rd letter.  At dusk G. Jewet came jogging along on his sorrel poney.  He came in and staid till 1/2 past 11, telling stories, principally of what he saw while at sea.  The more I see of George the better I like him.5 M.] Forenoon read in Gorgon as far as the 5th letter.  Afternoon Allen & I went on horseback, about 3-1/2 miles to see Miss Lucy Dolebeer.- called as we went, at Capt. Thompson's.  We found Lucy in her undress, but soon after we arrived also came Miss Eliza Jewet & Miss Porter, then Lucy went & dress'd, and looked as neat as an old cow - she is 2/3 as large.  After tea we took a walk down to long pond, about 1/2 a mile.  This pond is about 2 miles long, winding about among the high hills.  We were at the upper (northern) end.  On our right hand it ran up to a point in the north-westerly corner, from that it stretched Fast, with a winding and broken shore, about 1/4 of a mile, thence turning South it ran in form of a crescent, gently inclining to the right, till the Eastern was hid behind the Western shore.  This Pond is deep, contains several kinds of fish among which are Poach & Cat-fish.	We left Mrs. Dolebeer's at dusk, it was a bright moon-light evening.  The Ladies went before in the chair, we followed on horse-back, in the true stile of Chivalry.  We called at Capt. Comstock's & Judge Hillhouse's (father of Jas. Hillhouse of N. Haven) and arrived at Doct. Jewets, about 9.  Staid till 1/2 past 10, then came home.6 T.] Rose late and went to preparing to go to Norwich (8 miles) to see J. Huntington & H. Strong.  Went over to Doct. Jewets about 9 in the morning - hired his horse & chaise - arrived at Norwich 12.  Dined at General Huntington's;- after dinner smoked cigars, drank brandy, ate apples, walked about and viewed the town, at 6 we took tea with Henry Strong & 1/2 past set out for home.  Arrived at Doctor's 1/2 past 8 & came away at 11.	Norwich Landing (alias Chelsea) stands at the confluence of the Thames & Yantic Rivers, and is at the head of navigation.  Briggs & other vessels of considerable burden come up to this town.  The town contains (by the best of my judgment) about 60 dwelling houses all in huddle.  There are a Presbyterian & an Episcopalian meeting house.  The ground on which the town stands is extremely rough, & uneven, so that as the streets run along the side hill very near each other, the houses in one stand more than midway up those in the street below it.  So utterly void is the town of all regularity, both as it respect the streets & the surface of the ground, that wags who visit say it appears to have come down in a shower.	Norwich town stands two miles up the Yantic, which at that place is but a brook.  This town contains about 150 dwelling houses, a Presbyterian meeting house, a court house & jail.  The ground which is built upon is quite smooth, but there are a multiplicity of high ledges of rocks near the town; on the highest of these we took a view of the town.  The meeting-house is large, and elegantly finished inside.  The gallery & roof are supported by about a dozen pillars of the composite order, and as many correspondent pilasters are seen in the walls of the building.  The house is wood, the steeple rises not more than 30 feet above the roof & ends in a Cupola.	In this town lives General Huntington, a man of property, merchant & principal character, Jabez Huntington's father.  H. Strong's mother is his sister.7 W.]  Read a little in the forenoon.  At 11 set out on an Oyster party, call'd at Doct. Jewet's, the ladies were gone.  I followed the chair tracks, and by that means (for I was alone) readily found the way to Mr. Horton's on Norwich & N.London road, the place of rendezvous.  After a short stay there we went about a mile farther, over the worst road I almost ever saw, to a high piece of ground, near the Thames river.  There in a orchard we pitched our tents and waited for our oysters.  The necessary preparations not having been made it was late before we got ready to eat, but about 5 o'clock the ladies spread their cloths under a thick shade, the oysters were brot. out in a large pot in which they had been stewed, distributed in bowls & dishes, and we sat down on the ground (in the true ancient style) and partook of our luxurious repast.  A fire was struck by the side of a stone wall, then the ladies made their tea and the gentlemen roasted oysters.  We finished our repast a little before sun set, and after paying our bills ($1.25) came back to Mr. Horton's, where we stayed till nine o'clock - thence home about 10.  I staid all night at Doct. Jewet's.	The party consisted of 8 gentlemen & 13 ladies; viz. Captains Allen & Thompson, I. Allen, G. Jewet, Benj. Dolebeer, Doct. Whiton & Fox and myself: four miss Jewets, Mrs. Thompson, Miss Porter, Miss Yale, four Miss Comstocks, Miss Dolebeer, a Miss Marsh & one whose name I did not learn.	The customs of Montville are not unworthy of note.  In parties of this kind the ladies never think of depending on the gentlemen for their means of conveyance, they take care of themselves.  The gentlemen moreover do not furnish the whole of the treat.  They only prepare the substantials & the ladies the trimmings.  In this case the gentlemen prepared the oysters, rum, wine, sugar & limes, the ladies carried table cloths, teacups, knives & forks, tea bread & butter, biscuit &c.  This is a yankee custom which highly pleases me,- the girls seem to have some spirit of activity, they are not like our puny Jersey misses, hardly able to chew an oyster after it is on their plate.An account of our Party in Poetry, attended by a few Poetic flights which are not literally correct.1	Come ye nine Sisters, ye who sing & harp it,	Tune up the fiddle of your poetaster;	While he attempts, but simply to relate a       Few Yankee didoes.2	Seventh day of August Eighteen hundred five, went       Thirteen young lasses, all of pleasant Montville,       Down to the Thames to take a dish of oysters,       Eight beaux attending.3	Five little rose buds rattled off in chaises,       Eight, with a grace could guide the dapple pacer;       Round them exulting, the poneys of the beaux prance       Cutting drool capers.4	Table cloth & tea things the ladies carried with them       In their portmanteux,- also cake & butter;       While the gay Beaux provided rum & sugar       All for their comfort.5	On Flora's sofa beneath a tree's thick branches       Down sat the lasses & merry lads alternly       Round in a circle, while the tea & oysters       Smoked in the center.6	Ye who have heard of Saturn's golden Era,       When love & plenty revel'd in the hill tops;       Tell if you think that anything so festive       Ever was then seen.7	Not Cleopatra, 'circled by her courtiers,       E'er, before Ant'ny, could in splendor equal       Thirteen young lasses, flat upon their bottoms,       Eating stewed oysters.8	Such the gay scene, when Jupiter in state goes,       With all his train, to feast in Ethiopia,       And jolly Hebe, tripping round the table,       Pours out the nectar.9	High was our sport tho' lowly we were seated,       Hungar & love & merriment distracts,       And little Cupid hovers o'er the ladies,       Like a stool pidgeon.10	Hard Harry Handsail crept behind Hugdilda,-       Gave her a taught squeeze just about her rigging,-       Down he careen'd her flat upon her 'larboard       's tho' he would caulk her.11	Mat Mathematics said to Sally Sagwell,       'Dear little Sally, oysters are the dandy,-       'Nothing in nature teaches us to raise such       'True perpendic'lars.'12	Lucy Lielogy bet with Willy Wagtail       Forty great apples, that she could out-eat him       And faith! - I swow! her belly when she'd done, was       Round as a pumpkin.13	But lack-a-day! each sweet will have its bitter       Many sad mishaps'wait poor fallen creatues       E'en while I write I'm under a temptation       To curse Mother Eve, most!14	Rouse, Rouse up Boreas! blow old Phoebus'lamp out       Spread out your apron, oh good mother Nocta,       Lest the rude Satyrs peeping at our ladies       See their cheeks crimson.15	Cause as Tim Tickle sat by Polly Popgun       He punch'd her in the side - but didn't go to do so       She sprang like a frog, and before she knew it, let a        F---- ye on your nonsense.16	Come pretty lasses gather up your tea-cups -       We'll get the horses - let us be a-riding -       Mirth shall rekindle & sparkle in your faces       Polly feels better.8 T.] Read in Gordon, through the account of the tea-affair, quite to the account of the skirmishes at Boston.  Came from Doct. Jewet's about 5 in the morning.9 F.] We read a little in Gordon,- but at 9 o'clock, Mrs. Thomson, Lucy Dolebeer & G. Jewet called on us to go to N. London.  We all arrived at Mr. Miller's (Mr. Allen's son-in-law's) about 1 o'clock.  After dinner, Jewet Allen & myself went to a Mr. Roger's to get a boat for a sail.  We intended to go to Long Island but found it too late in the day.  We had a short sail and returned to Mr. Miller's where we stayed all night.10 S.] After breakfast we left Mrs. Thomson at Mr. Miller's & set out for home.  Went first to the saltworks on the sea shore. about 3 miles from N. London.	In these works, the water is first raised, out of a pond which received it from the sea by means of a Windmill-pump, into a large vat, from this it drains through sand into a reservoir which conducts it to about a dozen large tubs communicating with each other.  Over each of these tubs hangs a net which is let down and wet, then raised by means of a wheel, then it hangs and dries, in which process the fresh part of the water which adheres, evaporates and leaves the sale on the net.  In these tubs the water is made into brine.  From these the brine is carried into vats which stand 6 or 7 feet above the ground, over which are covers about half as large as the vats, which work on rolers so that in a storm they can cover what salt is made.  In these vats the brine evaporates & the salt crystallizes.  The process begins on the top and as the sale makes it sinks, so that when it is made they shovel up the sale from the bottom of the vats.  When the salt is made in the vats it is thrown down into bins immediately below them where it drains and is ready for market.  The salt thus made is packing salt.  It is said not to be so strong as Turks-island salt.  To make fine table sale there is another process by boiling.	We next visited the Light-house.  This building is about 2-1/2 miles from town, at the mouth of the river on the west side.  It is 100 feet high, built of a free stone brought from Middletown.  The form is an octagonal pyramid - it is about 25 feet in diameter at base & the walls are 3 feet thick.  We gave the keeper 4-1/2 each and he conducted us up 7 flight of stairs to the lamp.  The lamp is circular, about 4 feet in diameter, and supports between 20 & 30 wicks as large as a man's finger.  About a barrel of oil is here consumed every week.  The lamp is placed on the top of the stone work, and is surrounded by 8, 24 light windows supported by iron posts, and on the top of these the house terminates in a sheet-iron dome.  To this light, formerly belonged an eclipse machine which was thus constructed.  A large piece of sheet Iron, like a fire-screen, was fastened to an upright post or rod of iron, this screen was a semicircle & was made to revolve round the lamp by means of clock work beneath;- it revolved once a minute, so that one minute there would be total darkness, the next light.  This was to distinguish this from others, for a ship off the coast sees no less than 5 light-houses.	Our next stop was Fort Trumbull, which stands on the west side of the harbour a mile below the town.  Here are about 18 large Guns (18 pounders I believe) mounted, the fort is small, the banks low, not sufficiently high to hide a man completely.  The garrison is kept by a sergeant & only 4 men.	We dined in New London at Bulkeley's tavern.  Here for the first time I saw a Billiard table.  Played several games with Jewet for amusement.  It requires much practice to play this game well.	Went to the post-office, found no letter as I expected from Mr. Wood.  Wrote to D.H. Esty.  Set out for home about 5 o'clock - at the cove 3 miles above town saw a man who was this afternoon drowned as he was clamming, arrived home before nine.11 Sunday] Rose late - went to meeting - heard parson Strong of Norwich.  Toward evening went to singing meeting at the meeting house - thence to Doct. Jewet's where we spent the evening.12 M.] Finished the 1st vol. of Gordon, & began to read Coriolanus but did not like it.  To-day Allen had a young man come to study with him.13 T.] Read the Shipwreck (written by Wm. Falconer) and part of the Tragedy of Anthony & Cleopatra.  At 5 went with J. Allen to Doct. Jewet's & staid till 12.  Got from Mr. Allen's 2d vol. of Gordon.14 W.] Read 120 pages in 2d vol. of Gordon in the forenoon.  In the afternoon at 5 o'clock went with Captn. G. Allen to Captn. Thomson's on a visit.  We there found Misses E. S. & P. Jewet, Miss Porter & two Miss Comstocks.  After the moon rose (about 1/2 past 8) we set out with the ladies, saw all safe home, and staid at the Doct.'s till after 12, when I bid the ladies a farewell, as I leave town to-morrow.       Next Sunday will be only three weeks since the first time I was ever at Doct. Jewet's, or saw any of the family.  I have been there about a dozen times since that, & feel myself perfectly acquainted with the family, for which I cannot but entertain a considerable share of respect, and some sorrow involuntarily accompanies my parting with them. The old people are pretty strict moralists, plain in their manner and not very communicative.  The two eldest sons (David & Chas.) I have not seen, they are at Savannah.  George has been mentioned some days ago.  Eliza is about 23 or 24 - good size - full of radical heat - old as she is I would prefer her between the sheets to any of her sisters.  She is pretty well informed, full of conversation, but not of the most brilliant.  She would make a better mistress than wife.  Sally is about Eliza's size - 2 years younger, darker complexion, (E. has sandy hair and a fine skin) and far more reserved.  She now and then gives a witticism, but she is still better in good sense.  If she has any manifest weakness it is pedantry,- she has some reading.  She would make a better wife than mistress.  I think as respects the flutterings of venus, rather cold and indifferent.	Nancy and Patty are twins, so completely alike in size and features that it is difficult for even their acquaintance to distinguish them except by their voices.  They are about 18, scarcely halter-broke (for such is the quantity of mares in Montville, that colts are not rid till they get their full strength).  I think they will make something clever.	Hariot is about 13, the best figure of the whole.	Miss Margaret Porter now on a visit at the Doctor's is a Daughter of Gen. Porter of Hadley in Massachusetts.  She is short, tho' well proportion'd, of dark complexion,- reserved in her manners,- of very few words, but blest with an unusual show of modesty, prudence & good sense.  I think she far excels any of the Doctor's family.15 T.] Read Gordon, forenoon.  Afternoon prepared to set out for Lenox - at 3 set out with J. Allen & went to a Mr. Dolebeare's - whence to-morrow I shall take the N.London & Hartford stage to Hartford.  We arrived at Mr. Dolebeare's near night where we spent the evening in fleeting songs & conversation.  Mr. S. Dolebeare I never saw but once before.  I think him a very worthy person, and mark him as one highly worthy of esteem wherever I may hereafter find him.  He resembles my friend T. Fitch of Georgia.  He is large and square built.  Easy, tho' rustic in his manners, that is, He is a farmer and his manners are like a farmers, but nevertheless he makes all easy that visit him.  He has only a farmer's education, but is inclined to reading; makes witty, correct & sensible observations, and appears to me to possess a mind naturally strong, and such as if cultivated would undoubtedly shine in some conspicuous place.16 F.] At nine came over from Mr. Dolebeare's to the stage-road (or turnpike extending from N. London to Hartford) in order to take the stage.  Mr. D. & Mr. A. came over with me.  At 11 the stage came on with 2 passengers - arrived at Colchester at 12 where we dined.	Colchester is a handsome town - the buildings are good and built with taste.  I judge it contains about 60 houses.- there is one church and an elegant Academy three stories high built of brick.	At 2 we proceeded accompanied by Maj. Isham at whose inn we dined.  The Maj. is an agreeable man & has considerable information.  We passed through Marlborough & Glastenbury, mere country places, and very rough before we came to East Hartford.  At East Hartford saw what I have often thought would be handsome & agreeable, that is, a row of trees in the middle of the street.  The street in question is straight for near a mile, of sufficient width and in a straight line in the middle of the street stands a row of large elm trees.  The paths on each side have a very pleasant shade.	We crossed the river a little before sunset, in a scow.  The stage was drove in - we did not leave our seats.  Put up and lodged at a Mr. Lee's near the court house.	Evening saw Fish & Moseley, classmates.17 S.] After breakfast went with Fish to Weathersfield, to see Mitchel of our class, staid till about 4 in the afternoon then returned and called on J. M. Strong.  Weathersfield, 4 miles below Hartford on the West side of the Conn. River, contains the best land I ever saw.  The town contains I judge 150 houses, some very good, situated on streets, tho' crooked, running mostly up and down the river.  Here is a large and well finished brick meeting-house.  This town is famous for raising onions.  The land is so rich that onions grow to a great size without manure.  The houses in the town are not compact, but each has a considerable garden and some large lots mostly filled with onions.  The corn fields & meadows look excellently.  This town is called the Garden of Connecticut, it is in fact the whole of it a garden.	Judge Mitchel talked very familiarly with me about 2 hours after  dinner - he is a man of information & very communicative.18 Sunday] Rose late and eat no breakfast, for I was extremely unwell by means (I believe) of the water in this place.  I puked very much during the night.  Went to Parson Strong's meeting in the forenoon, but took no satisfaction I was so unwell.  Eat nothing except 3 crackers till 4 o'clock, then eat a couple of eggs & some crackers.  Half past 4 left Hartford in a Phaeton which came down this morning from Suffield with a passenger.  Passed thro' Windsor, a town of excellent land and good houses.  Between Windsor & Suffield there is a sandy barren 5 miles over; on this grow small oaks & pines.  Suffield is a handsome country town of about 60 houses, a meeting-house and handsome academy.  In this town lives [illegible] Jackson pres't. of Jersey Bank & Gid'n. Granger post-master general.  In the evening heard from Seth D. Burbank who taught school for Mr. Whelpley 3 years ago.  He has begun to practice law, lives with his father at Somers.19 M.] Rose at 4 and set out for Westfield - no other passenger but myself.  At West Springfield took another passenger.  Arrived at Westfield (12 miles) about 1/2 past 6.  Called at Sqr. Fowler's and saw Atwater of the Sophomore class who boards there.  He invited me, as did also Sqr. Fowler, to spend two or three days with them.  I accepted their invitation, took breakfast with them and agreed to stay till Wednesday when I can again find the stage at West Springfield.  Studied Horace, & the geography of the state of Massachusetts.	The land in West Springfield & Westfield is very good but not equal to Weathersfield & Windsor.  I think it better than that of Westfield in N. Jersey.20 T.] Rose at 6.  After breakfast went with Mr. Atwater about 1/2 a mile to see a carding machine.  This machine is principally composed of barrels, similar to that of a hand-organ, around which the card-teeth are set.  The barrels are of various sizes:- One large one, against which other small ones work,- the whole are turned by bands & straps connected with the shaft of a water wheel.  There are two sets of these carding barrels, into one the wool is first put, it works through among them as they roll, & comes out, broken:- is then put into the other set, and being drawn & rolled in a similar manner over the large & through the smaller barrels, comes out in handsome rolls, about 18 inches long, and well carded.	This machine is in a grist-mill, where water wheels (two) are of the horizontal construction.  The wheels are made thus.  First a rim, about 5 feet in diameter & 2 feet high, well hooped.  This is fastened to a shaft by 4 arms.  Around the inside of the wheel the buckets are placed, boards about a foot wide, running from top to bottom like the thread of a screw or moleboard of a dutch plough.  The wheel thus constructed is enclosed in a box under water.  To set the wheel in motion therefore, the gate is shoved from over the wheel & the water let down upon it.  The water falling immediately upon the wheel, strike the buckets obliquely and thus produce the motion, as wind moves a windmill shaft.	Forenoon read in Horace the 11th ode.  Afternoon read Morses' account of the American Revolution.  Visited the Academy in this town.21 W.] In the morning went with Atwater into a store in this town where I saw the STICK that was taken out of the intestines of an Ox, as stated in the New York Herald last winter:- the stick is about 10 inches long, 1 inch in diameter at the largest end, and is, I believe, the heart of white oak.	After breakfast, Atwater, J. Fowler & myself came in Sqr. Fowler's chaise to Springfield.  We crossed the River in a Scow, and call'd. on Bliss (my class-mate) about 10 o'clock.  Bliss accompanied us before dinner to see that part of the Gun-factory which is called the two water shops, i.e. two work shops where the most of the work is done by water.  Here gun-barrels are drawn, plated, turned, bored and welded; and all the heavy work of the arms is done.  In each shop is a trip-hammer for drawing the barrels.  We returned and dined with Bliss.  After dinner we all went to see the Arsenal, about 1/2 a mile from town.  We first went into a store-house of guns, drums, tents &c, &c,- was informed that in this arsenal there are 40,000 stand of arms.  Col. Orr, inspector of the arms, conducted us through the various work shops.  One where the various parts of the gun locks are forged, another where they are finished, another where the guns are stocked, and a fourth where the guns are completed.  There are in this factory about 30 hands employed.  The arsenal & work shops stand on a level sandy piece of ground, much higher than the town - the magazine is about 1/4 of a mile from the rest of the buildings & contains 1300 bbls. of powder.  If the other arsenals in the U. States are as well filled as this; quere, Is not our Amer'n. economy pretty well supplied with military stores?	After leaving the Arsenal we went to see the Bridge now building across the Connect. River at this town.  This bridge is to rest on six stone piers, beside the butments.  The butments in all are finished and are built in the following manner.  In the first place, when a pier is to be placed, a frame of timber 30 by 60 is placed in the water, ch          by timbers dove-tailed together, leaving square of 6 or 8 feet, through these squares piles are drove into the ground and on the frame thus prepared, the pier is built of quarry stone.  On each pier rests the end of an arch, cast over the intervening space (more than 100 feet) and made of pine slabs about 3 inches thick.  On the piers, that is, between the tops of the arches, frames are raised, so that the leap of the bridge will be nearly level.  They are now casting the 4th arch.  The bridge is a good width.  The clear of each arch is near 40 feet above low water.  The length of the bridge I do not know, but it must be near 1000 feet.  It is calculated to cost 30,000 Dollars.	Springield is a little larger than Springfield in N.Jersey - its beauty & business is principally in one street which runs with the river.  The land is good; but a little eastward we come to pine plains.  The bridge is wholly of pine timber.	Returned to West Springfield and lodged, waiting for to-morrow's stage to Northampton.	Drank tea at West Springfield with no other company than two handsome Ladies,- their looks raised my poetic fire to the following effect.       "The Maid that served the Tea."	Blest as a God that happy youth	Adorned with modesty and truth,	Whom fortune shall enrich with thee;	Oh! Lovely maid that served the Tea.	Then may he see the blushing rose	Which on your cheek in radiance glows;-	Then feast upon that placid smile	Which on your lip rests all the while.	If nature be not all deceit	That's form'd your countenance so sweet;	I hear your swelling breast impart -	"Beneath lies hid a gen'rous heart."	No more be Mary lovely thought!	Eliza's beauty fades to nought!	In grace will Lucy no more shine:	For here the Graces all combine.	But, Cupid, lay aside your bow,-	Far hence, alas! far hence I go	And leave these walls henceforth unknown	Which hold the pearl I wish my own.	Before my eyes, where e'er I roam	By day, by night, abroad, at home,	Thy image will forever be - 	Oh charming maid who served the Tea.22 T.] Rose after 6, and after breakfast, before the stage set out, left a copy of the liens wrote last night, on a table under the oilcloth; so that 'the maid who served the tea' may find them.	Came to Northhampton to dinner - and Worthington to lodge.  To-day became acquainted with a Mrs. Wheaton (a passenger) an elderley lady, travelling to Albany to see her children.  She lives in Beekman St. N. York, with her son Mr. --Wheaton.  She is Dutch, is acquainted with Grandma Bleeker, Uncle S. Dodge & all the older part of my relatives.  She has with her a granddaughter, a smart young lass of about 16.  The old lady is very fat, good humored & talkative.	Saw the Locks at South Hadley, as we passed along on the opposite side of the River, but could not distinguish to curiosity of the works.	Northampton is a handsome town of about 80 or 100 houses, partly compact - contains a large wood church, and small court house.  Here lives Gov. Strong in a very simple tho' neat & decent style.  From Northampton to Worthington, 20 miles, is the roughest country I have ever seen.  The whole is mountains (a continuation of the Green Mountains) covered with Pitto pine, spruce & some oak.  The land is generally poor.  Chesterfield, which we passed, & Worthington are small places, on high land, but look neat.	Became also acquainted with  Mr. Babcock, formerly of Walpole in N. Hampshire, now of Charleston, a stage-proprietor - I think a smart, clever fellow.  He came only to Northampton, is going to Walpole & will return soon to Charleston.23 F.] Set out at 5 from Worthington and came to Pittsfield to breakfast.  After breakfast call'd on Fowler my roommate - took dinner with him - at 3 set out in private carriage for Lenox (7 miles) where I arrived about 5.  Wm. Whelpley was not at home, none of the family beside, had ever seen me.  I told my name and was received with expressions of joy amply satisfactory.  Wm. came home, with his sisters about 9 - they had been on a visit.	Mrs. Wheaton the old lady with whom I rode in the stage, leaves at No. 67 Beekman St. N. York.  Her granddaughter is daughter of Captn. Dean of Albany.	From Northampton, quite to Pittsfield the country is extremely rough.  Pittsfield is tolerable pleasant - the town is about as large as Springfield in Jersey, situated something like it.24 S.] Spent the day in business, with Whelpley.  Only read Cicero's 'Somnium Scipionis'.25 Sunday] Forenoon did nothing,- Afternoon went to meeting & saw Miss Gratice Cook who was at Morris Academy 2 years ago.  After meeting Miss Cook & her sister Laura came to see us.  They live at Richmond - went home this evening.  Mr., Misses Whelpley & myself went to Singing school this evening.26 M.] Wm. Whelpley & I went before breakfast to Whittlsey's store where I got cloth for a coat on Mr. Whelpley's account, carried it to the Taylor.  Forenoon read Cicero's 'CATO MAJOR'.  Spent the afternoon with old Mr. Whelpley here at his son's.27 T.] Spent the day in business.  At evening borrowed of Mr. Wm. S. Walker of this town Ferguson's Astronomy.28 W.] Read in Ferguson.  Went to Court, where I saw the Attorneys Hulbert & Gould.29 T.] Read Ferguson.  Wrote a letter to J. Allen, Montville & one to Levi at Morris, put them in the post-office.30 F.] Attended court all day - evening went with Wm. to Grandfather Whelpley's.31 S.] Attended court & heard Mr. Hulbert, the smart young Federalist of Sheffield make a plea, on a case between the state & Stephen Boston a negro,- the crime was stealing a horse, Hulbert spoke for the Negro, but the negro was conviced.1805 September1 Sunday] In the afternoon went to meeting with Will. - the rest of the day we spent in reading Cicero de Amicitia.2 M.] Read Ferguson the most of the day.- became acquainted with a Miss Lydia Jones.3 T.] Forenoon studied Ferguson.  Afternoon went visiting to Grandfather Williams'.4 W.] Studied Ferguson - in the evening Mr. Stone and Miss L. Jones was with me.5 T.] Studied Ferguson - finished reading it once over - turned back and began eclipses.  Evening Dr. Lewis call'd and spent the evening in scientific conversation.6 F.] Forenoon read Ferguson.  Afternoon Grandpa Whelpley, Thos. & his wife came to see us.  The afternoon was spent in miscellaneous conversation.  Evening the girls, Wm. & I went to singing school at the meeting house.7 S.] Read Ferguson.  Studied the constructions of the Astronomical table.8 Sunday] Went to Meeting all day.  At evening to singing school.  Calculated the Eclipse of the mooon which happened last Sunday, is the first I ever calculated.9 M.] Forenoon calculated the Eclipse of the sun which happened last June.  Afternoon, calculated the GREAT ECLIPSE for next June, to the Lat. & Lon. of Morristown.  Beginning 9 o'clock, 49 min.  Greatest Obs. 7 11h 13m - End 12h 42m  Duration 2h 53m.  Digits eclipsed 11-3/4.10 T.] Went to court.  Read in Ferguson (began to review)  Spent the evening at the Academy with Mr. Gleason the teacher.11 W.] Read Astronomy.  Went to court.12 T.] Made out a projection of the Eclipse in June next, enclosed it in a letter & sent it to Mr. Saml. Whelpley.  Took tea at Mr. Jones'.  This afternoon Fowler call'd to see me - he agreed to stay all night.13 F.]  To-day we attended the trial of Wheeler of Patridgefield, who was charged with committing a rape on his own daughter.  The trial was conducted with the greatest caution and solemnity.  Hulbert of Sheffield & Duce of Williamstown were the prisoner's council.  The girl, Betsey Wheeler swore point blank, to every circumstance necessary to constitute the crime of rape, Wheeler had not a single consideration to shew in his defence, his council said all, apparently that could be said, considering the evidence, but about 10 o'clock at night, an hour and a half after they went out, they returned with the verdict that he was Guilty.  The prisoner was remanded to jail, deeply affected with his approaching fate.14 S.]  Forenoon Fowler went home, having staid with us since Thursday.  Immediately after dinner Wheeler received his sentence, after a short address, which was in these words.  "You are to be carried back to the place from whence you came, thence to the place of Execution where you shall be hanged by the neck, till you are dead; may God have mercy on your soul."  Read Astronomy some part of the day.15 Sunday] Forenoon raining.  Afternoon went to meeting.  Read some in Plutarch's lives which I took yesterday from Lenox library.  Evening went to singing school.16 M.] Read Astronomy - composed a tune, to be sung in the 135th psalm, L.M. spent the evening at Mr. Jones'.17 T.] Studied Astronomy.  Mr. Everts & Mr. Gibson passing this way call'd & took dinner.  They informed us that college will meet a fortnight from to-morrow.18 W.] Calculated the Eclipse of June next, to suit the Lat. & Lon. of Lenox.19 T.] Calculated an Eclipse of the moon, which will happen next Jn.  A letter from Esty directed to Wm. Whelpley was rec'd. to-day, it was addressed to us both.  Made some calculations to determine the number of Eclipses which will take place, and it appears there will be 4, 2 of the Sun & two of the moon, only 2 of which will be visible.  Jan'y. 4th Moon eclipsed visibly - June 16th Sun eclipsed visibly and (total at Lenox) but at N.H. the sun's S'n. limb will not be completely hid.  June 30th Moon will be 2 digits eclipsed in the afternoon about 5, invisible.  Dec. 9th Sun will be centrally eclipsed in about 23 S. Lat. at 1/2 past 9 in the Evening (N. Ha. time) of course invisible to use on 2 accounts.	This evening a Ball in town which Whelpley & I did not attend.20 F.] Forenoon fitted the Elements of the large Elipse for the Lat. & Lon. of N. Haven.  Afternoon went on a visit to a Mr. Goodwin's, 3 miles distant.  The visitors were Miss Whelpleys, Miss Selkrigg of Sharon (Ct.) Mr. Jas. Stone, Whelpley & myself.  The visitees were three Miss Goodwins - Miss Hannah, quite modest & sensible, about 21 years old - Misses Mary & Sarah, twins, about 16, high blooded for cutting Yankee didoes.  We spent a merry afternoon, and in the evening when kissing plays could with propriety be introduced the girls faces got pretty well gnawed, as well as ours.21 S.] Calculated and projected the Great Eclipse for the Lat. & Long. of N. Haven.  Read the life of Solon in Plutarch.  Went to Grandfather Whelpley's.22 Sunday] Went to meeting.  Read the life of Themistocles.23 M.] Projected an Eclipse for the Latitude & Longitude of Botany Bay - to happen the 10th of Dec. next.  Read the life of Camillus in Plutarch.24 T.] Rec'd. a letter from J. Allen, brot. by Doctr. Whiting, which states that I have two letters in his hands, one from Levi, the other from Mr. Wood containing 20 Dollars in money.  Wrote to Allen, in afternoon the Miss Goodwins came on a visit to Capt. Stone's near our house, we went there & had higher times than last Friday at Goodwin's.25 W.] Rec'd. a letter from Levi, stating that Mr. Whelpley will come to Lenox this fall.  It also mentioned that Mr. Wood sent $20 to London as was stated in J. Allen's letter.  Forenoon read in Ferguson.  Afternoon went to Stockbridge with the Miss Whelpleys - on the road met J. Strong alias long Strong, a classmate of mine.26 T.] Wrote a letter to H. C. Cox my roommate for next year.- one to Levi, acknowledging to Mr. Wood the rec't. of $20 Dolls. which J. Allen has rec'd. for me, and requested him to send me $60 more.  Also wrote to D. Esty the most black-guard letter I ever sent.  Evening something unwell.27 F.] Finished reviewing Ferguson.  Read some in Cicero de Officiis, made a visit at Mr. Shepherd's, the parson of Lenox.28 S.] Read Cicero de Officiis.  Ret'd. 1st Vol. Plutarch.29 Sunday] Read Cicero.  Went to meeting in the afternoon.  Spent the evening in conversation.30 M.] Took from the Library 2nd Vol. of Plutarch & read the life of Pericles.  Afternoon William & I went to see the Furnace & other works - spent the evening at Mr. Goodwin's.1805 October1 T.] Forenoon finished reading Cicero de Officiis,- read some in Plutarch.  Spent the afternoon doing nothing.2 W.] Translated some of Cicero de Officiis - read the life of Timollon.  Afternoon the Miss Goodwins came to see us.  Bill & I went home with them, I road knitting work & carried Mary, a part of the way, behind me.3 T.] Translated more of Cicero.- read Paulus Emillius.- Wrote some poetry.4 F.] Read life of Pelopidas.  Translated some of Cicero de of.  Evening went to Singing school in E. Street.  Waited on the Miss Goodwins --- moratus usque ad undecimamnor.  M solam ab cet. per[illegible] deduc. in [illegible] nud. mam. tet. nec hesito suspic. ut reb. fav illius cast. viol.5 S.] Read life of Marcellus.  Wrote poetry.  As we were playing admiration last Wednesday evening, Miss H. Goodwin, when she came to the letter L. observed that she thought she could admire me for a Lover.  This observation was the means of her receiving the following lines.1 As Cupid once upon the plain,       Went out to seek a rose   The blooming boy was fill'd with pain   Before he knew the cause.2	A Bee coneal'd within the flower   At Fate's severe command,   Crept out, & in a luckless hour,   Stung Cupid in the hand.3	But I, not thus deceived by Fate,   Saw Cupid ere he shot;       I saw my danger ere too late   But danger was forgot.4	I saw the boy, with pointed darts   Sit by his mother's side;   But, callous to all future smarts,   I laugh'd at all his pride.5	I saw him bend his silver bow   I heard the bowstring sound;   But never yet, had learned to know   That he could make a wound.6	Before the keen unerring dart   A careless mark I stood,   It flew, it fastened in my heart,   Nor drew one drop of blood!7	So small the shaft - so sharp the point   So swiftly did it fly,-   At first I thought the rouge was squ...   And took his aim awry.8	But now, alas! I weep & wail,-   There's poison in my veins!-   My heart would fill a water pail!   A thimble hold my brains!9	I jump & wallow like a cat   In snow two feet deep mir'd.-   I'm metamorphosed into that,   For which you me admired.6 Sunday] No preaching in Lenox.  Read Aristicles & Philopoemen.  Wrote poetry.  Finished a piece which I call Amanda.7 M.] Bought at Whittlesey's a pair of Pantelloons - mixed casimere.  Finished the third volume of Plutarch.8 T.] Forenoon went to Mr. Gleason's Academy, to hear the quarterly examination.  Afternoon made a visit with Misses & Mr. Whelpley to Mr. Shepherd's.9 W.] Studied a little,- play'd a little,- talk'd a little,- sung a little.10 T.] Translated from Cicero de Of.  Wrote a letter of Morality to Levi to be sent by Mr. Whelpley when he comes.11 F.] Studied some in Sallint Bellum Ingonthinum.12 S.] At noon Mr. S. Whelpley arrived with D. K> Esty,- spent the afternoon in conversation 0 in the evening I broke both of my shins against the Great kettle.13 Sunday] All went to meeting - spent the intermission at Uncle William's.  Evening all went to Dr. Worthington's.  Dr. & his Lady not at home - Miss Worthington kept house - Miss Goodwins were there, and we cut some of the highest didoes I have yet seen in Lenox.  We returned about 12.  S. nud. mam tet. sed in aul, coram H.  S. plus can. hab. M., minus mano.14 M.] Forenoon copied some pieces of Poetry for the Miss G's.  At evening went to a Ball made by Mr. Walker & Mr. Guey a French dancing master.  This is the first Ball I ever attended regularly.  Gave Misses G's. 3 pieces of poetry.15 T.] After breakfast went to see an Elephant.---went with Esty to Mr. G's, the ladies were mad at me for the poetry I had given them.  The poetry was a bitter, but I think a salutary pill for them; especially the piece I gave Sarah which I call Amanda: in that was express'd my sentiments of decency in a young lady's conduct, and the propriety of such plays as the cushion-dance.  Afternoon Mr. S. & S. Whelpley call'd. & at even'g. Dr. Collins.16 W.] Concluded to get out for N.Haven to-morrow.  Mr. Whelpley & Mr. Esty go with me.  Spent the day principally in preparations.  Miss Goodwins sent their compliments & would be happy to see us this evening.  We could not attend the call.17 T.] After breakfast call'd on Mr. Walker and bid him a farewell, sent compliments to Miss G's.  At 10 we took our leave of Lenox.  Came thro' Stockbridge, Barrington, & Sheffield; lodg'd. in Canaan (Ct.) at Hunts.18 F.]  Set out at sunrise - breakfasted at Litchfield about 1/2 past 10.  Supp'd. & lodged at Beachers in Waterbury 17 miles from N.H.  Here Esty & myself cut a Yankee dido with a couple of girls whose names are Anna & Fanny. 19 S.] Came to N. Haven to breakfast.  Whelpley was examined and admitted into the Jun. Class.  I took a walk with Esty and Jas. round town.  Mr. Whelpley & Esty set out for home about 3 in the afternoon.  James set out on his return a little before.20 Sunday] Attended meeting in the Chapel - did little else.21 M.] Attended recitation,- First division dispute.  Settled & closed my book of accounts, and found that I have spent in all during the last year, that is from 17 Oct. 1804 to 21 Oct. 1805, no more than $285.40.22 T.] Forenoon recited 10 Lectures in Blairs Lectures.  Afternoon attended an Astronomical Lecture, given by Professor Day.23 W.] Forenoon attended a dispute by the second division.  Afternoon call'd on Mr. Hughes,- & read.  Evening attended Lin. Society.24 T.] Attended recitation in Blair.  Went to the State house.  First time I ever saw an assembly in session.25 F.] Attended recitations.  Afternoon a Lecture on Optics.26 S.] Attended recitation in Vincent's catechism.  Afternoon we took into the Linonian Society, our division of those who have this year join'd the Junior & Sophomore classes - among whom are Whelpley & Gibson.  Read Johnson's 'Taxation no Tyranny' a piece pregnant with the utmost contempt for the Americans.27 Sunday] Attended meeting in the Chapel.  Read Hume's Essay on the standard of taste.28 M.	} Attended to the business of the class.-attended societies and spent the rest of my leisure in correcting a dispute to be exhibited before the class.  Wednesday call'd at Mr. Hughs' saw Miss Brown.29 T.	}30 W.	}31 T.] This morning the second appointments in our class came out - among which an oration was assigned to me.  Attended the usual business.1805 November1 F.] Recited a lecture in Blair.  Attended a lecture on vision - wrote in Dispute.2 S.] Copied my dispute.  At 11 heard the Doctor on some arguments to prove the divinity of the scriptures;- also he finished the decision on the question of the Flood.  This ques. he has decided by an induction of particulars.  Afternoon attended to various things - evening read Gen. Eaton's account of Com. Prebble's manoeuvers before Tripoli in Aug. 1804.3 Sunday] Attended meeting.  Read several numbers in the Federalist.  Wrote, & put in the Office, a letter to Betsey Crane.4 M.] Began to write a composition on Eloquence.  Attended the discussion at 11.  Afternoon & evening read & wrote.5 T.] Forenoon recited a Lecture in Blair, on Figures of Speech.  After'n. heard a lecture from Mr. Day on Colours.6 W.] At 9 read my discussion against the American revolt, was often stopped and contradicted by the Doct.- occupied the whole morning lesson till 10 in my own dispute.  Aft. dinner drank some wine with the Monitors.  Eve. returned.7 T.] Recited a lecture in Blair - finished my dissertation on Eloquence.  Spent the evening at Mr. Lyon's with Bennet & Dunwoody (junrs.)  Began yesterday to read the article of Metaphysics in the Encyclopoedia.8 F.] Recited as usual.  Read some in Metaphysics.  Took from the Library Swift's Martinus Scriblerus, which contains the 'Art of Sinking in Poetry.'9 S.] Forenoon read,- Meta. & Scrib.  Afternoon had some company - did little.10 Sunday] Attended meeting in Chapel, saw John Trumbull, Esqr. author of M. Fingal.  He is a man something smaller in body than I am.  Evening read Scriblerus.11 W.] Attended recitation.  The question on ability of permanent Navy was discussed, & decided by the Doct. in the affirmative.  After dinner Cox went again to Norwich his eyes not yet having recovered.  I read Metaphysics & attended to some other business.12 T.] Recited in Blair.  Attended Mr. Day's lecture on Optics - the telescope was the subject of this lecture.  I looked through the common refracting telescope at the sun - also through Gregory's reflecting telescope.  Through both we could plainly discern the spots, which at this time are small and few, the appearance is something like this, [small drawing of a circle with 5 dots in it]	Read in Metaphysics the article of Abstraction & General ideas.  Evening played Picquet & Whist at Tully's room.13 W.] In consequence of a very bad cold lately taken I did not go to prayers this morning.  Obtained permission of the Doctor to be absent mornings till my cold was removed.  The Doctor gave me a letter published in the Paladium containing a remedy for debilitated constitutions and a preventative against the consumption.  It is a letter from a Dr. Jennings to Dr. Benj. Rush, stating that Rushes notion respecting the utility of hand labour in pulmonary complaints had proved effectual in Dr. Jenning's- that he when under a severe cough, and so low as to be given over by physicians had betook himself to the ax and hoe, and by these means had effectually repaired his constitution.	Afternoon went with Atwood to the Cotton factory.  Evening attended Society, and took an addition to my cold.14 T.] Did not rise till breakfast time.  Got a lesson & recited in Blair.  Afternoon read some in Metaphysics.  Very unwell all day.15 F.] Rose late.  Recited at 11 in Blair.  Read some in Meta.  Received a letter from Esty and one from Levi.  Esty thinks of coming to N. Haven to study law.  Something better of my cold.16 S.] Did very little this forenoon.  Attended the catechistical recitation.  Aftern. call'd on Humphrey.  Even'g Boyle & Tower call'd on me.  Read Metaphysics.17 Sunday] Attended meetings.  Began to write a piece of Poetry.18 M.]  Attended recitations (dispute)   Afternoon call'd on Chauncey.  Read some Metaphysics.  Eve'g. play'd whist in Bliss' room.  Dreampt of seeing a man hung, and of dancing naked among a parcel of naked girls.19 T.] Recited Blair at 11.  Finished the second part of Metaphysics.20 W.] Attended recitation.  Afternoon was called to plead in a case of tresspass.  Huntington vs Young, J.B. Strong, Judge.- where Huntington charged Young with scribbling in his notebook.  The defendant own the action with which he was charged, but plead self-defence because Hunt. had taken his book when he wanted to write in it.  After hearing the particulars, the Defendant was fined a Bottle of Wine.  Attended the Society.21 T.] Recited in Blair.  Read Metaphysics.  Spent the Evening with Boyle, playing Whist at Mrs. Green's.22 F.] Recited in Blair.  Finished Metaphysics.  To-day bought me a Beaver hat, and a [Phi Beta Kappa] key.  Hat $7.50  Key $3.00  Attended Rhetorical Society.23 S.] Recited Catechisms - wrote a letter to Levi, on honesty.24 Sunday] Attended meeting.  After meeting went to Mr. Hughs' & took tea - ret'd about 8 in the evening.  To-day beside other things, copied McBride's oration.25 M.] Attended dispute in class.  Read Doctor Dwight's sermon on Duelling.  Studied the lessons for to-morrow.26 T.] Attended dispute by the 3rd subdivision of the class.  Afternoon tables in Enfield - at 11 to[illegible] the Doctor in Blair.  Afternoon & evening wrote on a dispute for the class.27 W.] Attended dispute by the 3rd subdivision of the class.  Afternoon wrote dispute.  Evening attended Linonian Society.28 T.] THANKSGIVING, throughout Connecticut.  Attended meeting, gormondized in the hall, and copied my dispute.29 F.] Recited.  Wrote a letter to Cox.30 S.] Attended the business of the class.  Evening wrote on my piece for Exhibition.1805 December1 Sunday] Attended to the usual duties.  Wrote a letter to Estey.2 M.] Worked most of the day at calculating Sun & Moon's Longitude for the Eclipse in June next.  Evening wrote.3 T.] Carried in our Calculations at 9 & recited to Mr. Day.  Evening wrote in my oration.  This evening some of the Students fill'd the kitchen well & broke the pump, because the cooks would not clear out the well after having found several pieces of putrified drowned Rats in the water.4 W.] Attended the usual business of the Class.  Attended Lin. Society.5 T.] Recited in Enfield & Blair.  Evening at 6, met with the [Phi.Beta.Kappa] Soc., at the Court house, from which we went to the Brick-meeting and heard an oration del'd. by Mr. Tutor Hall.  After leaving the court house I played loo all night; lost .43 cents.6 F.] Felt very unpleasant, did nothing in the forenoon.  Afternoon play'd loo till prayers, and lost 18 cents.  These two instances are the only times that I have played loo since I have been in College, in fact, I have played but once save these times, since the 12th of Jan. 1801.  And it is now my fixed, irrevocable resolve, to play no more loo, nor any game of cards of any kind where either money, liquor or property of any kind is dependent, so long as I remain in College.  This resolve is entered into from a full conviction of the absurdity of the principle of gambling; also because in all gaming companies I have on average marked myself as being unlucky in a peculiar manner.	I also resolve, for the sake of experiment, to drink no spiritous liquors, except for medicine, for four weeks from this time.7 S.] Spent the forenoon in exercise - afternoon called on Doctor Munson and conversed with him respecting the situation of my health, having last Thursday been alarmed by the dangerous symptom of spitting blood.  The doctor advised me to refrain from Study - eat light food, and exercise moderately.  I have not studied any since Thursday - I raised but little blood, perhaps 1/4 of a teaspoonful, but it was fresh blood, and it alarmed me.8 Sunday] Staid home forenoon, aft'n. went to the Brick & heard McEwan a young man lately licensed.9 M.] Read a dispute in recitation-room.  Obtained permission to board out of the hall.  Rec'd. the paper containing the Pres. Message, read it &c.10 T.] Spent the day principally in walking.  Began at noon to Board with Mrs. Baldwin.  Tully, Doughty & Saw spent the evening with me.11 W.] Forenoon did nothing but exercise & attend at the recitation-room.  Spent the afternoon in walking - evening in playing whist with Sally Baldwin.12 T.] Recited with the class - exercised considerably.  Bot. 1 Doz. of Porter @ 2.50.13 F.] Forenoon recited.  Afternoon hired a horse of Mr. Baldwin & rode with Gibson to Woodgridge.  Saw Goodyear, and got his note for J. Wood's acct. a load of wood 2.50 deducted, leaving $73.42 payable 1st of April next with interest.  I carried with me a copy of the acct. which I had drawn last fall when I gave him the original a/c, so that Mr. G. now has the original a/c, not receipted, and the copy rect'd.	Ret'd. about six o'clock - spent part of the evening at Whelpley's room and the rest, in reading 'A Defence of the rights of Tom. Jef.'14 S.] Attended the recitation in the forenoon, in the aftn. did very little.15 Sunday] Went to meeting at the Chapel.  Wrote a letter to Fitch in Georgia and put it in the post office.16 M.] Attended to the business of the Class.- evening plead two causes in a College-court, one for Tully, the other for J. M. Strong, gained both & got for my fee as much porter as I wanted.17 T.]  To-day at 11, while I was in the recitation room, sitting still on the seat I fancied that I tasted blood in my mouth, I spit it out & found I was not deceived.  My heart began to flutter as usual when I spit blood, I grew very weak & pale and it was with difficulty I could remain to hear the end of the recitation.  I considered myself as certainly in a dangerous situation,- that my lungs were some way defective, or that a blood-vessel had surely been strained.  I racked my invention to account for the blood appearing just at that time & in that manner.  Reflecting that I had exerted myself considerably last evening in speaking, and also this forenoon in cutting wood, I concluded that I had given myself a strain which had seriously injured me.  With downcast eyes, depressed spirits, with "solemn steps & slow" I proceeded, after recitation, to Mrs. Baldwin's to dinner.  I felt unable to eat any thing, was sensible of a pain in my breast, and fancied I could feel a sore spot where the vessel from which the blood proceeded had been uncapp'd.  A hectic flush was visible in my face whenever I looked in the glass, and my pulse was quite too rapid for a person in health.  In "doleful dumps" I seated myself by the fire.  I had not set there long when accidentally meddling with my teeth, I again tasted blood in my mouth & again threw out a mouthful.  On examination I found that one of my foreteeth, which I did not suspect, was decaying inside close by the gum.  I found I could suck from it just such blood as I had been raising from my lungs.  After repeated trials I was satisfied the blood I had been raising, and at which I was so terrified, came from no other place than that tooth.  The pain & soreness immediately vanished from my breast; the Hectic flush of my cheek became nothing more than the florid tinge of health, and my fluttering pulse which I supposed as high as 100, on examination was but 75.  I took my seat at table and with the appetite of a mower, eat a hearty dinner of boiled beef & potatoes.  I feel now as well as I ever did.	From discovering my mistake with respect to the blood I raised to day, I am led to suspect that what I raised last Thursday week came from the same tooth.  So alarmed was I when that blood first appeared that I immediately obtained leave of the prest. to case from my studies, I consulted a physician, and fancying that I felt by turns a heavy pain at the breast, have been using every possible means to restore my health.  Since Thursday week I have studied none, have used gentle but frequent exercise, have taken an egg in wine every morning, and have procured a dozen of Porter to drink in the afternoon.  I am now well, & if it should prove to be true that the blood which first appeared was from that defective tooth, I shall have proved by experience the sad influence of that most distressing of all fancyful disorders, the Hypocondria.	After dinner took from Lin. lib. Enfield's hist. of Philos. & Smith's Longinus, and from Col. Lib. a volume containing Milton's L'All. & Il.Pen.  Read in Long. & Milton.18 W.] Read in Longinus.  At three this afternoon attended the Funeral of Peck, one of the students of the Junior Class, who died this morning of the Bilious fever.  His class-mates all wore crape.  In the procession, the Junior Class went first, next the Officers of College, then the hearse, then the Mourners, then the Senior, Sophomore & Freshman Classes.  Every student who was able attended.  The procession consisted of near 250 persons.  The societies this evening did not go through with their regular business.19 T.] Attended to the business of the class.  Finished reading Longinus.20 F.] Recited in Blair, on the nature of Poetry.  Began to read Enfield's history of Philosophy.21 S.] Recitation in Vincent catechism on Predestination.  It is the Doctor's opinion that Predestination is demonstrable.  Read Enfield's hist. Philos.22 Sunday] Attended meeting in the Chapel.  We sung the Farewel anthem in thea fternoon, when the Doctor preach'd Peck's funeral sermon.  Evening wrote my piece for the exhibition.23 M.] Attended to the business of my class & wrote for Exhibition.24 T.] Besides my usual Business, finished my composition for public Exhibition.  Handed it to Mr. Hoadley who refused to have it exhibited on account of the personalities it contains.  It is a Hudibrastic poem of 360 lines, intended to satyrize two gentlemen (J. McBride & M. Maxwell) who have heretofore in our exhibitions, satyrized in a scandalous manner, those ladies in town who have been polite enough to assist in forming our audience.25 W.] In compliance with an invitation from Mr. Hughs, at 10 o'clock I call'd his house and went with his family to Church.  (He is of the Episcopalian denomination, among whom Christmas is celebrated with much splendor.)  After church, returned to Mr. Hughs' & dined, in company with Mr. & Mrs. Sherman, & Miss Ashford, beside the family of Mr. Hughs.--came back to College about 6, and attended Lin. Society - from 9 to 10 spent in Gibson's room, with considerable company.26 T.] Attended to business of the class - rec'd. a letter from Cox.27 F.] At nine, spoke a piece before the Doctor,---11 recitd Blair, on Didactic & Descriptive poetry.  Wrote to Cox at Greenwich (Con.)	The Doctor, having heard the nature of my poem for exhibition, put his veto upon it.  (Maxwell is a particular friend of his).  The other appointes conclude not to exhibit.  Rec'd. a letter from Betsey Crane.28 S.] Heard another Lecture from Mr. Day, at 9.  Recited Catechism at 11.  Read in Enfield's Hist. of Philosophy in the afternoon & evening.29 Sunday] Attended meeting.  Read some in Enfield's hist. Philos.30 M.] Attended to the business of the class.  Read history of Philosophy.31 T.] At 9 heard Mr. Day's 6th Lecture on Philosophy;--at 11 recited to the Doct. in Blair, Lecture on Hebrew poetry.  Read in Enfield's hist. philos.  Evening went with Atwood of our class to see Miss Nancy Brown.  She was not at home:- we returned and I spent the evening reading Enfield, respecting the Cynic sect.Another year is now gone by:-O Time how fast thy minutes fly!Should Providence protract my spanTo the full age of mortal man;My sands, at least, have one third runBefore my work is well begun.E'en yet a child, not yet left my school,Two grades above a learned fool,14I study, eat & sleep & pray,Waiting some future, better day.The last twelve months that have gone henceTo swell the list of past events,Have slid along before my faceScenes, which with pleasure I retrace.During this period, have I pliedMy Studious faculties, and triedWhat strength of Genius I possessTo dig out Physics, & undressThe wily Sophist's flowing speeches;Which, when divested of their breeches,May shew the limbs & real featuresWhich Nature gave these curious creatures.I've also taken one small raceTo see New England's dimpled face,And feel delighted with it, saving It here & there suffers for shaving.One here15 t'other in Massachusetts,But both so blith, so full of gleeThat I, among them, seem to be,Straying among Idalian grovesWhere Venus, with her turtle doves,Hovers around to lead the GracesThrough all the green & shady places,Teaching them, in "fantastic" sallies,To trip it through Elysian vallies,-And, as their waving tresses flow,On flying heal & quiv'ring toeMeasure the Lute's extatic sound,In many a gay and jocund round.But since they no more meet my sight,Their images return by night,And Venus smiles amid my dreams;While ev'ry day Minerva seemsTo chide, and tell me these gay lassesWill never bless me with good.  Ah saysThe real world, I bid defianceTo all your theoretic science,To give the man his proper polish,And Nature's ruggedness demolish,Unless the soothing female heartShall be allowed to act its part. 