TRIP TO N. HAVEN1808 August11 T.]	Set out at 1/2 past 9 from Morristown on grey poney.	Went through Springfield to Union [illegible] - no money.  Conversed with Capt'n. Corey on settle' of David's affairs - he is to make a statement and send to Morris within 4 weeks.  I agreed when settlement seen, to do something toward satisfying him, if J.C. & Levi would join me in it.	Spent the evening with H. Mills at Rattoons.  Much said on many delecate matters.	To-day I was much affected in the Lungs - probably is consequence of riding in the dust - coughed almost incessantly during the evening.12 F.] Rose at 6.  Breakfasted at Mr. McDowals with Mills.  This morning felt weak & expectorated more than common - probably a 1/2 tea-spoonful of a yellow sweetish mucus or pus.  Left Rattoon's @ 8 - before I came away however saw several pieces of Mill's poetry.  Dined at Smith Burnet's in Newark - at 3 came on and reached N.Y. about 5.  Have been better to-day than last night.	At 6 o'clock call'd on Miss Strong.  Spent evening with Robt. Russell at Mr. Lovell's.13 S.Made several calls.  Rec'd all my acc'ts. against Mr. Marston for tuition of Thos. Yates.  Bought of Mr. Lovell Coat pattern of cloth & pantelloon pattern of Casimer both for $19.  Tertia hora post meridiem, ad Nov. Op. ivi in equo. Mar; [illegible] domi inveni.  Unam horam actus ibi delectanter cum puellis, et sexone jucundo incepto, Mills attigit.  Vesperas omnes egimus in varia confabulatione.  Cum Maria Curtiss sum de multis suis procis, in ratione plana et sincera.  De Scoto dixit illum sibi placuisse - sed se illum non amare,- illum se estimar javerund dignum, sed illum non esse tales quales pro rarito se diligere.  Nade quoque multi facere, sed illum se non amare, similibus modis de reliquis.  Roberto excepto; de illo non multus diceret.  Sally mihi declaravit,- famas de Mar. et Rob. esse veras; illum propositiones fecisse de matrimonio, et illas, parentus compulsione, refugisse: Mariam tristem esse de care, et probabilitur nunquas nupturas.	Post non longus tempus ibi attigi Sal, mihi dedit sermonem scriptur; legi.  Alius dedit; id legi.  Aliqus dedit; id legi.  Exambobus id plane colligitur;- Me suum [illegible] possidere, sed ejus parentes illam dare velle aliquo ditioni.  (Sicsto) Mihi dedit (breastoin) in qua suus orinis est,- et chartan pro horoscopa, bene factam quoque cum ava coma: ambas pro [illegible] amoris.  Mei imaginem illa possidet.	Tres literas a Jacobs mihi petendit non quantas - ab illis visum non ei multa spes vestata, illum facturum promisicses.  J. scribit in verbis fugidis generaliter - once he said de picto matrimonio, quod ante sex menses inter se factus erat, "dicerem cum [illegible] Vo[illegible] teseratum erat."	Paucis, non opinor illi spes multas vestare illum nubendi - nunquam credidi tantum amores ei inesse pro illo quantum pro mi - cum lacrymis illa dicit.14 Sunday] Rainy.  Spent the forenoon with the girls.  I was more unwell than common in consequence of the eastwardly weather, and of sitting last evening till 12.  Incessant cough all day.  The state of my health at present is this - I feel well and strong except my affection at the lungs.  That renders my breast sore - I have constantly a little pain in the breast but not seated: cough frequently, particularly in afternoon and evening: raise a yellowish or brownish thick mucus in the morning - quantity about a thimble full.  It does not loosen and come up till after I have taken some exercise - then at three or four times throwing out I am relieved, and feel free in the lung till afternoon.  The mucus usually comes up without coughing.	We attended church in afternoon, the weather having become clear, and at 1/2 past five we (Mills & I) came to N. York.  Arrived after sunset.  I went to bed at 9 o'clock.15 M.] Bout. a portmanteau in Water street for $6.  Made arrangements for sending back my trunk to Morris and at 10 set out for N. Haven.	At Harlem, fed and staid till 1/2 past 2.  Came on as far as New Rochelle, where I put up & retired at 8.	Rose this morning @ 6 - felt so well did not take an emetic as yesterday I intended.  After a little exercise I began to cough and about 7 expectorated as much as usual - felt free in lungs till noon - I had taken a milk breakfast - took a milk dinner.  Coughed less in afternoon than yesterday.  Took dish tea at Binkney's (New Rochelle) about 6 - smoked pipe and felt freer - expectorated and felt less propensity to cough than last evening - breast not so sore - wash'd my breast in spirit & retired.16 T.] Rose 1/2 past five - felt better than yesterday.  At six came on and reached Rye before 8 - on the road coughed little - expectorated less than yesterday morning.  Breakfasted on beefsteak, milk and bread.  On the road to Stamford coughed none felt very free in the lungs - At Stamford took a bowl of milk and bread - staid at Davenport's 2-1/2 hours.  Read Virgil - have a pocket edition with me also a volume of Shakespeare and the "portal to the cabinet of Love" to amuse my fancy when I grow dull.  Have read since I left N.York 16 of the kisses and the Epithalamium - choice stuff to raise one's ideas in the presence of the Yankee girls.	At Davenport's saw Jarvis and Wheaton of the class in College previous to mine, of them I learned that Cox is in Norwalk.	Left Daven. about three and reached Norwalk at 5.  Soon after I arrived and put up at Whitlock's I saw Mr. Cox going up street - sent for him - we conversed till nearly sunset - he went to take tea with the ladies - ret'd. & at 1/2 past 7 went to a Masonic lodge where this evening he is to be initiated.  Cox has much to say, he will call again this evening and tell it.	To-day have all day been much better than yesterday.	Cox went from N.Eng. in fall 1806, commenced merch't, in company with two other persons.  Sold his property & took everal other thousand dolls. @ 16 p.cent - traded - converted his property principally into cotton.  Before their Shipments could be made the Embargo caught them.  Their cotton was sent on to N.York where it now lies in store and will not bring enough by several thousand doll's. to satisfy their creditors.	Last winter Cox had agreed to marry Miss Bartram of Norwalk.  They were published.  before consummation, Cox explained his pecuniary situation to the father.  He put his veto on the match.  His (Bartram's) property came into the family by his present wife, Mother of Cox's miss.  Lately the father has obtained a deed for the whole & will'd it to his own son by a former wife, with the consent of the pres't. wife.	Several quarrels have taken place between Cox & Bartram.  Cox goes no more to his house, but sees the young lady occasionally.       Cox's eyes are yet week, in fact the nerve of the left eye is almost completely parallized - vision in the right is something obscured.  He sails in the morning for N.Y. to dispose of his cotton - thence he goes to Ballstown or Saratoga Springs for the benefit of his eyes.  In this unfortunate situation just mentioned Cox intends to clear out all his mercantile matters, break & quit the business - then to recover his eyesight will go (by advice of Dr. Rush) to West Indies and labor.  He thinks of going to St. Cruz this winter.17 W.] Rose 1/2 past 5.  Cox sail'd about 6 - saw him off - I then came on to Burr's 6 miles where I breakfasted.	Expectorated this morning more than yesterday morning - coughed more in the forepart of the day, probably the consequence of conversing late last night with Cox.	At 1/2 past one dined at Lovejoy's in Stratford - a good house - slept after dinner 1/2 an hour & at 3 came on.  Arrived at N. Haven about 6 - saw Gibson first of any of my acquaintance.  He boards at Mrs. Perrits.  I also took lodging there.  Spent the evening in very pleasant conversation with Gibson & the family.	This afternoon and evening also coughed more than yesterday - retired early.18 T.] Rose at 6.  After breakfast took a ride, called at Mr. Hugh's and Mr. Dagget's.  Wrote a letter to Murdock requesting him to come immediately to Morristown.  Afternoon bought cloth for a coat, carried it to Townsend to be made - called on Dr. Dwight.  The Dr. appeared pleased to see me - he talked much as he always does.  The conversation, after the usual inquiries & observations on health &  weather, was for a time unentertaining.  We flew from one subject to another, touched on grain, fruit, fruit trees, politics and science.  The Dr., like a truly polite man, seemed leading me over a large surface, in order to discover on what I conversed with most ease.  At last we came upon the govt. of young men - then I was at home, having lately been teaching, and it was difficult for either to say as much as we wished.  The Dr. appears to think as much of his talents in governing boys as I do.  Both were anxious to publish our good success,- much egotism must have been apparent on both our sides: and indeed I left him after an hours rapid conversation without telling him half the merit I think I possess in the management of boys.  I was much pleased at a question the Dr. asked me, during the conversation, 'twas in the words, "Didn't you always find it better to prevent crimes than punish them?" precisely a sentiment I had stated in my farewell address to my school - one of my darling maxims, and as I thot. of my own discovery.	At 5 called on Susan Daggett - much pleasing conversation with her.  She hinted to me that Cox has endeavoured once to kill himself.	On conversing with Gibson this evening I find that report confirmed,- that he attempted it by taking laudinum.  This attempt was made soon after his disappointment in marriage.  In fact his conversation appears wild & I am something fearful he will yet effect his purpose - for I cannot conceive that a young man of his ambition, frustrated in all his ambitious projects, can ever become a teacher in a private family; as he says he intends doing in Santa Cruz.	This morning I took an emetic - expectorated as little as any day these two days - coughed none in the forenoon - evening coughed a little and felt a little uneasiness in respiration as usual - but my breast is not half as sore as it had been every other day for a week past.19 F.] Rose half past 5.  After breakfast call'd on Nath'l. Taylor and saw also Joshua Williams, John Tomlinson & Hen. Ulford former acquaintances in College.  Took a ride on horseback in afternoon, a cold wind was blowing from N.E. I staid in - wrote a letter to Wm. Whelpley & read a little in Hume.  Spent the evening conversing with Gibson.	This morning I took another emetic: the operation was quick and soon over.  In the operation expectorated about as much as yesterday - but the mucus was very slightly tinged with blood.  I had little cough during the day - some uneasiness of respiration as usual - expectorated very little but that little was during the whole day of a bloody shade.  My breast to-day has been quite sore, no settled pain however; there has been none during my whole difficulty nor have I ever experienced one position in bed more uncomfortable than another.	This afternoon I saw Dr. Ives - conversed with him.  He is for treating my complaints in Dr. Campfield's method precisely.  He sent me a bitter plaster to be put on my breast this evening - recommends white vitrol mixed with Ipecac: as an emetic - recommends the use of the vitrol because it makes the operation quicker and easier.	Put on the plaster at 9 o'clock.20 S.] Rose at 7.  After breakfast drest my blister and spent an hour with Mr. G. Hoadley at his lodgings.  Call'd at the Court.  Spent an hour or two at Beers' bookstore reading Rush on causes and cure of Pulmonary consumption.  After dinner called on Nat. Taylor till 3.  Took a ride on horseback about N.Haven till 5 - call'd at Mr. Sanford's and Mr. French's.  Went to prayers in the chapel at 6.  Spent the evening principally in reading Hume.  The Blister laid on my breast last evening drew very well.  I drest it with cabbage leaves in preference to cerate.  Omitted my emetic.  Took a breakfast of coffee, bread & butter and beef.  Dinner, Beefsteak, Tea, Bread & butter & saltfish of which I eat very little.  Drinked pint of N.Y. ale before dinner as I have done these three days past.  This morning I expectorated very little - and during the day less than usual.  Cough scarcely perceptible in the forenoon.  Afternoon and evening about as usual not violent but dry without much expectoration.  Difficult to determine whether my lungs are as sore as usual, on account of the soreness of the blister.  I can however draw a long breath without coughing, which some days I cannot do.21 Sunday] Rose at 6.  Forenoon went to Merwin's meeting house and heard Stewart preach.  Afternoon went to church: after meeting rode a mile or two - evening read in Hume.  Rec'd. letter from Wm. Whelpley.  This morning took another emetic: expectorated very little.  Towards night and during evening cough in some measure returned: also a little soreness in the chest.  Blister does not run profusely - did not draw so well as I supposed.22 M.] Rose at 7.  After breakfast I took a ride horseback and call'd at Mr. Hughes'.  At 1/2 past 10 call'd on Professor Kingsley and went with him into the Library.  The Lbrary now contains about 5000 vols. - an addition of 2000 was made to it about the time I left college.	Call'd on Miss Mary Ingersol a few minutes before dinner.  She has become very handsome, and is as amiable as she is beautiful. She is the belle of N.Haven.	After dinner I went to court.  Judges Swift, Griswold & Edmonds on the bench.  Swift presided.  He conducts business with the most dispatch of any man I ever saw sit in judgment.	At 4 took a ride with Mrs. Pernit in Judge Ingersol's chair, my horse before it.  To-day my horse in kicking, got one of his hindlegs between two boards in the stable, and barked it - he is not perceptibly lame.  Spent the evening reading Hume, principally on the character and conduct of OLIVER CROMWELL.HEALTH.	Last night rested badly.  Felt unwell in morning.  Expectorated more in the morning than yesterday.  Through the day expectorated and coughed little.  Evening unusually free from cough.  Breast very little sore.  Hope am beginning to mend.23 T.] Rose at 6.  Went before breakfast to see my horse at Mr. Baldwin's.  He hurt his leg yesterday.  This morning quite lame.  Most of the forenoon I attended court.  Went with Gbon about 12 to Butler's to see Mr. Gallatin now there.  Saw him, but 'twas a glimpse, cannot describe him.	Afternoon tended court, heard Bristol, Staples, Daggett & Smith.  Daggett most eloquent as well as most ingenious.  Evening wrote a letter to Levi, & read a little in Hume.HEALTH	I have done nothing for my lungs to-day, but am getting better.  Morning coughed a little on beginning to exercise, expectorated, a little - principally all at once.  Expectoration quite white, but tasted and looked more like pus than mucus.  Free till evening, coughed very little & expectorated nothing.  Evening coughed a little and expectorated twice; each time the expectoration freed me from the coughing which preceded.24 W.] Rose and did little as usual.  Rec'd. a letter from Norwich stating that Murdock has gone to Morris.HEALTH	Every symptom of disease encreased.  At evening considerable [illegible].25 T.] Rose late - rode about 5 miles in the forenoon.  Spent the day & evening in loitering about.HEALTH	Altho' yesterday I was quite uncomfortable with an increase of every symptom of which I complain - to-day I have expectorated less than common - coughed almost none at all, & in all respects have felt better than any day since I left home.	To-day I have eaten light food - taken it often - omitted my ale & renounced tobacco in all shapes.  Whether this regulation of diet has any effect, time must determine.26 F.] Rose at 7 and breakfasted soon after.  Prepared for leaving town.  Wrote a letter to Whelpley stating that I had rec'd. notice of Murdock's being gone to Morris.  Made several calls.  At 2 left N.Haven and came to Chewstown where I put up for the night at Mrs. Dayton's.  In this neighborhood is a manufactory of cotton & Woolen cloths, owned and conducted by Col. David Humphreys.	It is the custom to give no admittance to strangers - by good fortune I found the Col. at the Factory.  I introduced myself - gave him a short history of myself - my present journey &c, &c - was admitted by him into the works and treated with much politeness.  After going through the works and returning to my lodging, the Col. call'd there & I conversed with him till 8 o'clock.	These works are situated on the Naugatuck River, 5 miles above its junction with the Housatonic at Derby.  They are a Grist mill, a Sawmill, a Paper mill, 2 fulling Mills & the Factory.  They, with their appendages, such as houses for the workmen, mechanic shops &c, have cost him $100,000.  He manufactures cotton yarn, a course cloth for the southern market (cotton warp wool fitted) casimeres & broadcloths.  I was shewn a piece of casimere blue, a beautiful colour, softer than is common for imported, & equally fine.  I saw no cloth finished, but a piece just wove, of an excellent thread, such a piece as ought to fetch $7 a yard if properly finished.  His best clothes and ossimeres are made of the wool from the Spanish sheep he imported several years ago.  He imported 100, He now owns between 1 & 2 hundred full blooded & many more half and quarter blooded.  He sells the full blooded at 100 dollars apiece; and might ere this have sold his whole flock at that price.  The legislature of N.York have offered 50 Doll's. bounty to the man who shall introduce that breed of sheep into the counties respectively, throughout the state.21  The Col. gave me specimens of his casimere and fine wool, to carry home.  His best wool is worth a Dollar & half p.lb. for the common half-blood wool, which the farmers in the neighborhood who have bred sheep from his rams bring in, he gives a Dollar a pound.  Besides cloth, &c, Stockings are here manufactured in considerable abundance.  I think here are a doz. stocking looms: these are curious machines; as well as the water machines for spinning - both so complicated that from the slight views of a minute or so which I had of them, I got no complete idea of their construction.HEALTH	As yesterday - much better than common.  If any alteration less expectoration this morning - less cough in the evening than yesterday.27 S.] Rose at 6.  From Chewstown, travell'd thro' Oxford, Southbury, Woodbury & Bethlem to Litchfield.	Chewstown is merely the northern parish of Derby, celebrated only on account of Humphrey's manufactory.	Oxford also a parish of Derby, very rough and uninviting.	Southbury the southern parish of Woodbury, is a town considerably pleasant;- situated in an interval among the mountains.  The place looks wealthy, farmers principally inhabit it - surface uneven, but easy to till - the town much larger than Chews or Oxford.	Woodbury is about the size of Southbury.  Not so pleasant.  The best tavern a poor one, kept by a shoemaker who neither knows how to provide nor entertain.  Here lives Nath'l. Smith Atty. at Law, at present one of the judges of the Superior Court.  This man at the age of 21 was destitute both of property and learning, but by the native powers of his mind has raised himself to a high degree of eminence in the profession of Law, and that too in Connecticut, where merit usually determines the degree of eminence for every man.  Here I saw John Strong of our class in college.  His father resides here.	Bethlem is a pleasant town, not level, but the buildings are principally painted and the town looks neat.HEALTH	Less expectoration this morning than usual.  I think all I threw up would not exceed half a common thimble full.  I should care nothing about this quantity, was it not tough, of a bad colour, and seems to be evidently an improper congestion or secretion, in consequence of some disorder in some part of the lungs.  But I am in hopes, that a cool diet and my exercise on horseback, will now soon free me from this difficulty completely.  Cough light to-day, perhaps a little more frequent than yesterday.28 Sunday] Spent the day in Litchfield.  Heard the preacher of the parish (Mr. Huntington) preach in the forenoon.  Aft. rode & read Merchant of Venice.       In this town lives Dr. Sheldon a physician of eminence.  Him I consulted on my case.  He gave me his advice in writing - nothing remarkable I think.  Fee $1.HEALTH	Little expectoration this morning;- cough something increased thro' the day and evening.29 M.] Rose 7.  After breakfast rode - attended court.  Read.  Aftn. read a book, lent me by Dr. Sheldon, on structure, use & diseases of the lungs.  Rode.  Evening in my room reading.  Wrote to Mills.HEALTH	Little morning expectoration - cough as yesterday.30 T.] Rode, read, tended court &c.  Made enquiries in respecting Litchfield.	Litchfield is a town cont'g. probably between 4 & 5 hundred inhabitants.  Situated on a hill.  Its beauty principally in 2 streets, one running N. the other S. from the meeting house.  Buildings as valuable as in any town of the size I ever saw.  Very great proportion of the inhabitants wealthy and respectable throughout the state.  The town is not commercial, but celebrated mostly for science, particularly law knowledge.  Public buildings, a Meeting house, Courthouse and jail, Principal characters, Dr. Huntington, preacher, Dr. Dan'l. Sheldon, physician.  In the Law are many respectable characters - Judge Reeves, who delivers law lectures to students from all parts; John Allen; Mr. Jas. Gold; Asa Bacon; a Mr. Walcot; Aaron Smith & others.	In this town, besides Judge Reeves law-school, is a Young ladies' School kept by Miss Pierce.  About 50 young ladies are usually here - are taught, painting, drawing, fine needlework, composition, Geog. Arith, reading & L..gram. - whole expense, board, washing &c included, only two dollars a week.       This afternoon I call'd on Dr. Sheldon to return a book I bor'd. of him: he invited me to tea.  At 1/2 past 5 went. Dr. entertained me much.  Conversation principally on consumptions.  He is and always has been of a consumptive habit.  Has coughed from the age of 20.  At age of 40 had an absess in the lungs which very nearly took his life.  Expectorated a pint of matter when the absess broke, & 1/2 pint a day for three months after.  By exercise on horseback he recovered his strength, and has preserved his health ever since.  Is now over 50.       	In this town a company of soldiers in Jone's army are enlisted to the number of 50 or more, and are training, daily.HEALTH	Little expectoration - less cough than any day since I left home.  To-day abstained wholly from meat - eat rice and milk principally.  Spirituous liquors I have disused several weeks.31 W.] Pass'd my day agreeably - read O. Cromwell's administration in Hume.HEALTH	Expect/n. diminishing.  Cough rather encreased: [illegible] in aftn.  To-day took coffee- breakfast - meat at dinner & smoked a cigar.1808 September1 T.] Rose early & took a bowl of milk warm from the cow, as I have several mornings done, I think to advantage.	At 9 I attended one of Judge Reeves' Law lectures.  Subject Executors and Administrators.  The bulk of the lecture was on the degrees of kindred, shewing to whom Ex's. & Ad's. were lawfully required to distribute an estate.	The judge lectures extemporaneously, from a mere plan sketched on paper.  He has very little of finished eloquence - speaks fast - but treats a subject with extreme clearness, and in an entertaining manner, for he possesses much wit.	At 11, left Litchfield.  Pass'd thro' Goshen, & Caanan to Salisbury, where I put up.	Goshen small town, noticed for its divinity students, under care of Mr. Hooker.	Caanan rough - not worthy notice.	Just after I passed the Housatonic between Canaan & Salisbury, I heard a roaring of waters.  Looking to the North about 1/4 of a mile, I had a hansome view of a fall in the river.  I stopped my horse and viewed it.  It seemed to me a fall of about 40 feet much interrupted with rocks.  The water seemed a complete foam - looked beautifully.  I had no remembrance of Morse's acct. of this fall and concluded it a small one not sufficiently curious to merit his notice.  But turning to his acct. of this river, I find this is the fall between Canaan & Salisbury, where the river in an entire sheet pitched perpendicularly 60 feet, and the river in the whole falls much farther.  The sheet of 60 feet is the foot of the whole fall, and must, from the place where I saw the river, have been hid from my view.	In Salisbury is a half Furnace.  Soon after my arrival saw a casting of pig:- about 2-1/2 tons.  Spent the evening with Thos. Waterman of my class - student at law in this town.  In Goshen saw Strong; class after mine.HEALTH	Every way improving.2 F.] Rose at 6.  Before I started went again into the furnace.  This Furnace is of that size which is called half furnace.  Whole, half & qr. &c. are denominations taken from the quantity of stuff consumed in charging, and the quantity of Iron made at a casting.  Here have been cast guns, (but not lately). Shot.- & every other article common to furnaces.  At the furnace I was inf'd. that Andover in Jersey is called a whole furnace.       Through Sharon & thence on the turnpike I came to Poughkeepsie, 36 miles.  Sharon is a handsome town: smoother than Salisbury, both good soil for wheat.  In the latter town, saw Waterman - former, saw Canfield, both of my class.       From Sharon to Poughkeepsie, 30 miles, is a turnpike; much better than common.  It runs in the St. of N.Y. thro' Dutchess County, towns of Armenia, Washington, Clinton & Poughkeepsie.  The whole country through which it runs is of a very uneven surface, but few of the hills are untillable.  This is a good great tract of country - will raise good wheat.  Washington, the best,- Clinton, the poorest township of land.  Clinton rocky.  There is considerable of apples but scarce a distillery.  Distilling business here might enrich a man.  There are a few cider-mills - but on a small scale.  Many of the inhabts. Dutch.  Keep large fat horses.Health	Expect'n. in the morning small quantity as usual, but slightly singed with blood.  I perceived blood yesterday morning.  Cough very little.  Breast not sore.  Indeed had I not been unwell I should not consider the symptoms as they now appear, worthy notice.3 S.] Aftr. Breakfast, call'd on Robt. Wilkinson, classmate at college, now student at Law in this town.  With him took a ride to view the town - viewed a wooled factory - dined with him.	Poughkeepsie cont's. perhaps 3,500 inhabts. (i.e. the village).  A place of much business - has doubled in size in 10 years.  Principl. st. runs at right angles from the river - mile long, and half the distance houses compact.  Many other streets well settled.	At the factory I saw weavers, wearing broadcloth.  They weave with what they call a spring shuttle.  The cloth is so wide they cannot reach the selvedges with their hands - hence throw the shuttle back and forth by a machine.	This factory is not so extensive as Col. Humphrey's - but they have here made cloth worth 8 doll's. p.yd.	In this town the courthouse was burnt, 3 years ago; since when it has been in contemplation to divide the county,- hence no courthouse is yet built.  The walls of the old house are standing in the midst of the town.	After dinner I left Wilkinson and came 4 miles to Mr. Henry Dodges where I put up for the night.  Spent the afternoon in tracing relationship with the Dodge family, and in picking beans for dinner to-morrow.Health	Clear expectoration.  Cough little encreased.4 Sunday] Went to Hackensack meeting, rode in waggon with the family.  Aftn. got acquainted with Ephraim Smith & Jane Dates, of the neighborhood.  Spent the day with much satisfaction.  Mr. Dodge is son of my mother's mother's brother.  Farmer, clever fellow: religious man.  His children are Caty, Jane, James, Sally, Harry & Ellen.  James and Sally are full grown - smart in conversation, but uncultivated.  Caty is married to a Mr. Wardle, who keeps a pitiful country school in the neighborhood.  In this business there is some mystery.  She (Caty) is in my estimation very handsome.  Her father is rich: owns 200 acres of very good land: is forehanded; has been a member of the legislature.  I could not explain, and dared not enquire why she got no better husband.Health		not worth noting.5 M.]	After breakfast, left Mr. Dodge's, and passed thro' Fishkill, township to the landing, crossed the Hudson to Newburg, came thro' Canterbury, after passing N.Windsor, & put up at a private house (Mr. Sagman's, a [illegible]) in Smith's clove.Health - good.6 T.] Through the clove, by Beecher's and down the turnpike, came to Ramapo, where I staid all night.  Health - good.7 W.] Came home.	Health - good.