[Letter from Jeremiah Hole to David Mulford, dated Lexington, Ky., 6/28/1790.  Not transcribed.]Daniel Mulfor'd Account with Mr. Matthias Meeker His Guardian [One page of financial records, 1796-1802.  Not transcribed.][One page of notes about a trip to Boston in August-September 1806.  Not transcribed.][Financial accounting for the same trip to Boston in August-September 1806.  One page.  Not transcribed.]DISTANCES TRAVELLED FROM MORRISTOWN ON TRIP TO N. HAVEN[Not transcribed.  Total of 315 miles.]
LIST OF BOOKS BELONGING TO D. MULFORDthe 1st Oct. 1808.Blair's Lectures			2 volumesBlackstone's Commentaries		4Morse's Univ. Gazeteer			2Kennett's Roman Antiquities		1Constitutions of all the States		1Beattie's Minstrel			1Webster's grammar			1Lowth's grammar			1Greek Lexicon				1Xenophon - a Greek book		1Homer					1Latin dictionary				1Cicero Delphini (Latin)			1Florus Delphini				1Livy					1Tully de Officiis			1Latin grammar				1Cicero de Amicitia			1  }Virgil					1  } gone to Geor'a.					----					24 volumes
TO MULFORD'S LADY LOVE WHO LIVED IN SPRINGFIELD, N.J.MAID OF THE VILLAGEMaid of the village, case to shedThe tear, that oft has fallen free,For one, whose heart, if e'er it bled,Has bled most tenderly for thee.Though we may boast of kindred souls-Of minds each for the other made;Heaven our destiny controlsAnd hurries me to Death's cold shade.Before we first could say we loved;Or a firm friendship warm'd our breasts;Or tender tales our bosoms moved,Or mutual pass'd our first gay jests,-It was the will of God to setThe mark of sorrow on my head,That I should make Disease my mate,And the lone grave my nuptial bed.Ere I had felt ambition's flame,Or had arriv'd at man's estate,Weakness was hovering round my framePreparing pale Disease a seat.The Northern blast and Frost more keen,Storms from the East's damp regions sent,And dews, deceitful as unseen,All minister to her intent.With their dread force, she bold assail'dAnd seized upon the seat of life,Nature, long struggling, weaken'd, fail'd,Unequal to the mighty strife.22I left my home, where health alone Was wanting to my store of good;Willing all hazards else to run -Willing for health, to beg my food.In hopes to find some favor'd place,Some nook Disease had never view'd,Or one so wild Old Nature's faceWould fright the Fiend if she pursuid.Georgia's wide wilderness I found-As soon my enemy was there:No step in all my weary roundBut led me to some hidden snare.Whether I scour'd the upland-hillOr journied through the Lowland wild,Disease was my attendant still:I must be sad though others smil'd.Neitehr Ocone's*23 pine-clad shore,Nor Sparta's* elevated plain Satilla's Echo, Ocean's roarCould free me from my lingering pain.By turns some marks of health appear,And flatter'd Nature reigns awhile;Then, then it was my home seemed dear,Dear seem'd my village Maiden's smile.But soon Disease afresh returnsArm'd with new force and keener pangs;The flame of Life, how dim it burns!How can I now escape her fangs?Deeper is pierced the vital part,My wounds fresh open'd freer bleed;Before my half closed eyes, the dartOf Death hangs quiv'ring o'er my head.My limbs grow feeble, motion slow,And paleness spreads my sunken cheek,Save where the Hectic-fever's glowThe swift approach of Death bespeak.Homeward once more my eyes are turn'dThat, after all my pain and toilMy wearied bones may be inurn'd [typo for inur'd?]And moulder in my native soil.But Death has moved his hand so slow:Life lingers still about the seat:Again the joys of home I know-Again my friends and kindred greet.But can pale sickness fraught with painsAnd woe in poverty array'd,A mind where melancholy reignsGive pleasure to my village maid? Shall I approach and breathless shewWhat ravages Disease has wrought?Again provoke her tears to flow?Again disturb her peace for nought?My name again she may not hear,-All recollection of me die,My funeral-knell not reach her ear,Nor tombstone meet her passing eye!Maid of the Village, thou shalt shedThe tender tear no more for me;Heaven in mercy has decreedSome worthier Youth a mate for thee.		Daniel Mulford			Morristown, N.J.				Sept. 21 & 22  1810.
INVENTORY OF CLOTHING D. MULFORDOct. 1, 1810.ClothingGreat coat		1Surtout			1Spencer			1Hat			1 New			1 oldCoats			1 Short black		1 Do. Drab			1 Long snuff		1 Do. BlueRound jacket		1Vests			1 Black cassimere			1 Dark cloth			1 Silk double breasted			1 White jean			1 Yellow cord		1 Do. bro.... .....			1 Nelson's wavePantelloons		1 White Dimity			1 Nankeen			1 Drab - old			1 Black cassimere			1 Dark cloth			1 Black bombarineBoots			1 pr. fair tops			1 SuwanowsShoes			1 pr.Stockings		1 Silk white			1 Hemp			1 Cotton white			1 White worsted			1 White woolen			1 Pale blue			1 Dark blue			1 MixedSocks			1 Cotton ribbed			1 FlannelDrawers		2 pr. flannel			1  "  linenFlan'l. Wrappers	2 New			2 OldNight gown		1Sham vest		1 FlannelShirts			2 Cotton very large		}			2 Do. ------sizeable		} nearly new			6 Linen, old.Cravats			8Pock. handks.		1 Silk			1 CottonSURGEON'S CERTIFICATE	from the within Certificate I am of opinion Mr. Daniel Mulford ought to be exempt from the ordinary Duties of a militia Man.			Moses Sheftall			S.C.C.R.M.			April 27th 1810.	I do hereby certify that Daniel Mulford is unable to perform Military by reason of a continued Pulmonary affection.					Charles Williamson.	Savannah April 24th		1810	Mr. Dan'l. Mulford				To Kollock & Parker		Dr.1810Dec. 31	To visits, medicines &c in 1810	}							}	$34.50			from Oct. 21st to this date	}				Kollock & ParkerMAP OF MILLEDGEVILLE [GEORGIA][Hand-drawn map.  Not transcribed.]
Inventory of Daniel Mulford's property which was left by him at the time of his decease.  October 26th 1811.1 Riding Chair & Harness		80.001 Desk					10.00Cash with Canfield & Mulford	$182.041 Silver Watcha note against John Crane		90.007 Vols. Bacons' Abridgement4  "       Blackstone's Commentaries	5.00Books at SavannahWearing Apparel1/2 doz. Silver Tea Spoons		4.001 Large Bible1 pr. plated Spurs			1.00
DANIEL MULFORD'S GRAVE	In the little cemetery beside the old church in New Providence sleeps Daniel Mulford, a remarkable young man, who, had he lived, would beyond peradventure have won a high place for himself in the affairs of the State, and possibly of the nation.  One of the accompanying pictures shows the grave where Mulford's disease-racked frame was laid to rest ninety years ago.  Mulford's spirit was a rare one.  As a lad he worked as a shoe-maker in New Providence, and while lying before the fire and reading the books that came to his hands he formed the desire to make more of himself than anything his environment seemed to extend to him.  His parents were dead.  They had left him a small property to share with his brother and sister.  He attended the Morristown Academy, walking back and forth nearly every day.  Soon he was ready for college, and he went off to New Haven at the close of the eighteenth century.	While at Yale he had as college mates men such as Samuel F. B. Morse and others, who later rose to eminence.  The youth kept a journal even from the days when, while dreaming before the great fireplace in the little New Providence home, he felt his ambition rise and surge within him.  All through college he kept a running narrative of his experiences, and after graduation he returned to Morristown, taught a while in the Academy and later began the study of law.  While at Morristown he was selected to deliver the Fourth of July address, when the Revolution was close to the time than the Civil War is to us to-day.  His address was pronounced masterful, and he became a marked man.  But the seeds of consumption, which had now and then during his earlier years given vague evidences of their presence, now began to assert themselves, and Mulford had to go South.  He traveled much there and studied law, being admitted to the bar.  At last he gave up the struggle against a disease that knew no mercy, and came back home to die.  Among his papers after his death was found a pathetic tribute in verse to the young woman in Morristown whom he had loved, but to whom he had not spoken on the subject, because of the disease which he had long felt was dragging him down.  The simple pathos of those verses brings tears to the eyes to-day.  They are still preserved in the manuscript, together with a mass of other writings which Mulford left, by descendants of other branches of the family.  Among these are the members of the firms of the caterers, W. F. Day & Brother, and Stephen S. Day, all well known hereabouts.  Mulford's journal shows unmistakable evidences of a clear and powerful mind, capable of greater development.  Had he lived he would have reached the prime of life at a period in the country's history when such men as he were needed.  Instead fate ruthlessly cut him down, and now he lies beneath the trees of New Providence cemetery, practically unknown and forgotten.	New Providence, New Jersey,		Union County1 Do = ditto2 Before learning Latin in late 1801, Mulford uses shifted alphabet code (A=B, B=C, etc.) or backwards alphabet code (A=Z, B=Y, etc.) to record private information. 3 Cfubz Nfflfs,t Twffaifbsu. [Betsy Meeker's Sweetheart]4 uijt nbst tifat xifo ILbnft Xppe dbnf up tff Cjntrz I Nfflfs. [this ????? when HKames Wood came to see Betsey H Meeker] [unclear where this footnote belongs; sometime between June 1-15]5 hyt jt nif gjou ujnf pg nz cfjoh opiydfe jo Dpngboz--- [???the first time of my being noticed in Company]6 up tff Tlmmxz Csjnnjo & good'e efs uxjdf [to see Skllwy Brimmin & fnnc'd her twice] [Unclear where this footnote belongs; somewhere between June 1-15]7 qvu vqpo cfgpsf Mr. Yonbo & Cfutx, by Betsey H. Meeker [put upon before Mr. ??? & Betsy] [unclear where this footnote belongs; somewhere between June 1-15]8 Note, the Line preceding this mark(*) was written by Betsey H. Meeker in my Absence, which was simply an Act of friendship in her, seeing that I had forgotten to record so pleasant, extraordinary and important a Matter.9 * The Harvest apple tree near the road.10 Gifford hotel was on the corner of Broad and Market St.11 Hae non sunt nomina famil.12 It is well known that all great Poets, have the art of making the sound of their liens, and the measures, correspond with the sense.  Whatever I may have here done in the former, I have aim'd at nature in the latter;- the motion express'd in this last line was very rapid - so I have made the line shorter than the other, and it runs off in rapid numbers.  Posterity must allow that there is real Poetic rapture in this line, and that it is happily express'd. [Mulford evidently means "shit a-bed."] 13 I have this year been admitted into the Linonian Society of Yale College, in the Medal of which is seen the Goddess of Wisdom holding a youth by the hand & pointing him to the temple of fame, on the top of which stands Fame blowing a trumpet.14 Two grades above the Sophomore class;- / Sophomore - Sophos (wise) moros (fool)15 In Conn. in Montville.16 [This antedates the OED's first (1889) citation for "horny" in this sense (2b) by almost a century.]17 Allegorically referring to subjects I had in contemplation, on which to write a commencement oration.  First, I thought of writing on the pursuit of Education:- next, on the progress of Poetry;- my anxiety to do well, drove me every subject I attempted, before I had half examined it: at last I fell into the hypo and determined not to write at all.18 [Refers to the same footnote as above.]19 Veal town City contains three houses - two of which are taverns and the other the house of a Doctor, Dr. Boylan.20 [He calls his autobiographical romance The Life of Charles Changeable.] 21 ["Wrong information" written vertically next to this sentence.]22 Went to Georgia on horseback.23 In Georgia. [Asterisk in the next line refers to the same footnote.] --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1